Guideline on Anti-Money Laundering and 
Counter-Financing of Terrorism  
(For Licensed Stablecoin Issuers)  

August 2025  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

Introduction ..................................................................................................... 2 

Risk assessment ............................................................................................... 4 

AML/CFT Systems ......................................................................................... 6 

Customer due diligence ................................................................................. 10 

Ongoing monitoring ...................................................................................... 23 

Stablecoin transfers ....................................................................................... 27 

Terrorist financing, financial sanctions and proliferation financing ............. 41 

Suspicious transaction reports ....................................................................... 43 

Record-keeping ............................................................................................. 45 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 

Introduction 

1.1.  This Guideline is issued by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) under 
section 171 of the Stablecoins Ordinance, Cap. 656 and section 7 of the Anti-
Money  Laundering  and  Counter-Terrorist  Financing  Ordinance,  Cap.  615 
(AMLO) for a stablecoin issuer which holds a licence granted under section 15 
of the Stablecoins Ordinance (hereafter referred as “licensee”).  A licensee is a 
financial institution (FI)1 as defined in Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the AMLO.   

1.2.  This Guideline provides guidance to assist a licensee to understand the money 
laundering  and  terrorist  financing  (ML/TF)  risks  associated  with  regulated 
stablecoin  activities 2  and  sets  out  the  relevant  anti-money  laundering  and 
counter-financing  of  terrorism  (AML/CFT)  regulatory  requirements  for  the 
licensee to  address such risks.  A licensee should meet these requirements in 
order  to  comply  with  the  statutory  requirements  under  the  Stablecoins 
Ordinance and the AMLO.   

1.3.  This Guideline is intended for use by licensees, their officers and staff, taking 
into account the specific characteristics of the issuance, redemption and other 
related activities of stablecoins.  Given significant differences that may exist in 
the organisational and legal structures of different licensees, as well as the nature 
and  scope  of  their  business  models,  the  flexible  approach  adopted  in  this 
Guideline is a reflection of the fact that there exists no single set of universally 
applicable implementation measures. 

1.4.  Compliance with this Guideline is enforced through the Stablecoins Ordinance 
and the AMLO.  A licensee who fails to comply with this Guideline may be 
subject to disciplinary or other actions under the Stablecoins Ordinance and/or 
the  AMLO  (if  applicable).    The  HKMA  is  empowered  to  exercise  various 
provisions under the Stablecoins Ordinance and/or the AMLO in case of non-
compliance with the requirements set out in this Guideline.   

1.5. 

Section 10 of Schedule  2 to  the Stablecoins Ordinance  requires  a  licensee to 
have in place and implement adequate and appropriate systems of control: (i) 
for preventing and combating possible ML/TF in connection with its licensed 
stablecoin activities; and (ii) to ensure compliance with applicable provisions of 
the AMLO, and any measure promulgated by the Monetary Authority (MA) in 
the  form  of  rules,  regulations,  guidelines  or  otherwise,  to  prevent,  combat  or 
detect ML/TF.  A failure to comply with any provision of this Guideline may 
reflect adversely on whether a licensee continues to comply with the minimum 
criteria set out in Schedule 2 to the Stablecoins Ordinance.  

1  

2  

For the purposes of this Guideline, unless specified otherwise (e.g. an FI as defined in the AMLO), 
the  term  “financial  institution  or  FI”  has  the  same  definition  as  set  out  in  the  FATF 
Recommendations.  
See section 5 of the Stablecoins Ordinance. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
1.6.  The minimum criteria set out in Schedule 2 to the Stablecoins Ordinance, and 
other requirements promulgated by the MA in  the form  of  rules, regulations, 
guidelines or other communications apply when a licensee is granted a licence 
and continue to apply throughout the licensee’s conduct of licensed stablecoin 
activities.  Certain requirements, particularly the record-keeping requirements 
under the AMLO, will continue to apply for a specified period (at least 5 years 
for record-keeping) after the relevant activities have taken place.  In the event 
of licence revocation, the licensee is required to comply with these requirements 
for the period stipulated under applicable laws and regulations.   The licensee 
should have in place adequate and appropriate arrangements to ensure that any 
time specific requirements are met. The MA reserves the right not to revoke any 
licence unless such arrangements are in place to the satisfaction of the HKMA.  

1.7.  This Guideline should be read in conjunction with the Stablecoins Ordinance, 
the AMLO and any rules, regulations or guidelines issued by the HKMA that 
are relevant to the operations of the licensee. 

1.8.  Terms that are not defined in this Guideline should be interpreted in accordance 
with the definitions provided under the Stablecoins Ordinance and the Guideline 
on Supervision of Licensed Stablecoin Issuers. 

1.9. 

For the avoidance of doubt, the use of the word “must” or “should” in relation 
to an action, consideration or measure referred to in this Guideline indicates that 
it is a mandatory requirement.  The content of this Guideline is not intended to 
be  an  exhaustive  list  of  the  means  to  meet  the  statutory  and  regulatory 
requirements.    A  licensee  should  therefore  use  this  Guideline  as  a  basis  to 
develop measures appropriate to its structure and business activities. 

1.10.  The stablecoin market, in common with those for other virtual assets (VAs), is 
evolving globally in terms of technology, regulatory frameworks, the business 
models  of  issuers  and  the  emergence  of  new  players  who  undertake  roles 
analogous to, but sometimes different from, intermediaries and other entities in 
traditional financial markets.  Stablecoins also present specific ML/TF risks, in 
particular  as  regards peer-to-peer transfers between unhosted wallets.   At the 
same  time,  technologies  such  as  blockchain  analytics,  offer  possibilities  of 
mitigating ML/TF risks that are not currently available in traditional financial 
services.  Against this background, and in view of the ML/TF risks inherent in 
stablecoins,  the  HKMA  intends  to  adopt  a  risk-based  but  cautious  approach 
towards AML/CFT requirements for licensees.  Licensees may be required to 
demonstrate, to the HKMA’s satisfaction, that the risk mitigating measures they 
adopt are effective in preventing and combating ML/TF.  Where this is not the 
case  for  any  reason,  the  HKMA  will  require  licensees  to  take  additional 
measures or ensure that such measures are taken by an appropriately supervised 
FI or virtual asset service provider (VASP)3, or a reliable third party. 

3  

For the purposes of this Guideline, the term “virtual asset service provider or VASP” has the same 
definition as set out in the FATF Recommendations. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
2. 

Risk assessment 

2.1.  A  licensee  should  adopt  a  risk-based  approach  (RBA)  in  the  design  and 
implementation  of  its  AML/CFT  policies,  procedures  and  controls  (hereafter 
collectively referred to as “AML/CFT Systems”).  The licensee should identify, 
assess and understand the ML/TF risks to which it is exposed in respect of its 
specific stablecoin business, and take AML/CFT measures commensurate with 
those risks in order to manage and mitigate them effectively.   

2.2.  A licensee should conduct an institutional ML/TF risk assessment to identify, 
assess and understand its ML/TF  risks taking into consideration a number of 
factors including but  not limited to  (i) customer risk factors, (ii) country  risk 
factors, (iii) product, service or transaction risk factors and (iv) delivery channel 
risk  factors.    The  institutional  ML/TF  risk  assessment  forms  the  basis  of  the 
RBA, enabling the licensee to understand how and to what extent it is vulnerable 
to ML/TF.   

2.3. 

In undertaking an institutional ML/TF risk assessment, a licensee should ensure 
that: 

(a) 

(b) 

the  risk  assessment  process  is  appropriately  structured  and  properly 
documented, covering the identification and assessment of relevant risks 
and supported by qualitative and quantitative analysis; 

the  risk  assessment  has  taken  into  account  all  the  relevant  risk  factors 
before determining what the level  of overall risk is  and the appropriate 
level and type of mitigation to be applied; 

(c) 

the approval of senior management is obtained for the assessment results; 

(d) 

a process is in place by which the risk assessment is kept up-to-date; and 

(e) 

appropriate mechanisms are in place to provide its risk assessment to the 
HKMA when required to do so. 

2.4.  The  scale  and  scope  of  the  institutional  ML/TF  risk  assessment  should  be 
commensurate with the nature, size and complexity of a licensee’s business.  It 
should  also  consider risks identified in  other relevant  risk assessments which 
may  be  published  from  time  to  time,  such  as  Hong  Kong’s  jurisdiction-wide 
ML/TF risk assessment, as well as other higher risks notified to the licensee by 
the  HKMA,  the  Joint  Financial  Intelligence  Unit  (JFIU)  or  law  enforcement 
agencies. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.  A licensee should identify and assess the ML/TF risks that may arise in relation 
to: (a) the development of new products and new business practices, including 
new delivery mechanisms; and (b) the use of new or developing technologies 
for both new and pre-existing products.  The licensee should undertake the risk 
assessment prior to the launch of the new products, new business practices, or 
the  use  of  new  or  developing  technologies,  and  should  take  appropriate 
measures to manage and mitigate the risks identified. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 

AML/CFT Systems  

3.1.  A licensee should:  

(a)  have AML/CFT Systems, which are approved by senior management, to 
enable the licensee to effectively manage and mitigate the risks relevant 
to the licensee; 

(b)  monitor the implementation of those AML/CFT Systems referred to in (a), 

and to enhance them if necessary; and  

(c) 

take enhanced measures to manage and mitigate the risks where higher 
risks are identified. 

3.2.  The  nature,  scale  and  complexity  of  AML/CFT  Systems  may  be  simplified 

provided that:  

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

a licensee complies with the statutory requirements set out in Schedule 2 
of the AMLO and the requirements set out in paragraphs 2.2, 2.3 and 3.1;  

the  lower  ML/TF  risks  which  form  the  basis  for  doing  so  have  been 
identified  through  an  appropriate  risk  assessment  (e.g.  institutional 
ML/TF risk assessment); and  

the simplified AML/CFT Systems, approved by senior management, are 
subject to review from time to time.  However, AML/CFT Systems are 
not permitted to be simplified whenever there is a suspicion of ML/TF.  

3.3.  A licensee should implement AML/CFT Systems having regard to the nature, 
size and complexity of its businesses and the ML/TF risks arising from those 
businesses.  The AML/CFT Systems should include:  

(a) 

compliance management arrangements; 

(b) 

an independent audit function;  

(c) 

employee screening procedures; and  

(d) 

an ongoing staff training programme. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compliance management arrangements 

3.4.  A licensee should have appropriate compliance management arrangements that 
facilitate the licensee to implement AML/CFT Systems to comply with relevant 
legal  and  regulatory  obligations  and  manage  ML/TF  risks  effectively.  
Compliance  management  arrangements  should,  at  a  minimum,  include 
oversight  by  the  licensee’s  senior  management,  and  appointment  of  a 
Compliance Officer (CO) and a Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO)4. 

3.5.  Effective ML/TF risk management requires adequate governance arrangements.  
The board of directors or its  delegated committee (where applicable) and  the 
senior management of a licensee should have a clear understanding of its ML/TF 
risks and ensure that the risks are adequately managed.  The senior management 
of the licensee should appoint a CO at the management level to have the overall 
responsibility for the establishment and maintenance of its AML/CFT Systems; 
and  a  sufficiently  senior  person  as  the  MLRO  to  act  as  the  central  reference 
point  for  suspicious  transaction  reporting  and  the  main  point  of  contact  with 
JFIU  and  law  enforcement  agencies.    The  CO  and  the  MLRO  should  be 
individuals with sufficient expertise and be provided with adequate resources 
for discharging their responsibilities.  

Independent audit function 

3.6.  A licensee should establish an independent audit function which should have a 
direct  line  of  communication  to  the  senior  management  and  the  board  of 
directors  of  the  licensee.    The  function  should  have  sufficient  expertise  and 
resources  to  enable  it  to  carry  out  its  responsibilities,  including  undertaking 
to  ensure 
independent  reviews  of 
effectiveness. 

licensee’s  AML/CFT  Systems 

the 

Employee screening 

3.7.  A licensee should have adequate and appropriate screening procedures in order 
to  ensure  that  only  employees  with  high  integrity  are  deployed  to  perform 
AML/CFT roles. 

Ongoing staff training programme 

3.8.  Ongoing staff training is an important element of an effective system to prevent 
and detect ML/TF activities.  A licensee should provide adequate training to its 
staff  so  that  they  have  the  necessary  capability  and  are  adequately  trained  to 
implement its AML/CFT Systems.  The scope and frequency of training should 
be  tailored  according  to  the  job  functions,  responsibilities  and  the  level  of 
experience of the staff of the licensee. 

4   Depending on the size of a licensee, the functions of the CO and the MLRO may be performed by 

the same person. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
Group-wide AML/CFT Systems 

3.9. 

3.10. 

Subject  to  paragraphs  3.12  and  3.13,  a  licensee  with  branches  or  subsidiary 
undertakings outside Hong Kong5 that carry on the same business as an FI as 
defined  in  the  AMLO  should  implement  group-wide  AML/CFT  Systems  to 
apply  the  requirements  set  out  in  this  Guideline  to  all  of  these  branches  and 
subsidiary undertakings, where the requirements in this Guideline are relevant 
and applicable.  

In  particular,  a  licensee  should,  through  its  group-wide  AML/CFT  Systems, 
ensure that all of its branches and subsidiary undertakings outside Hong Kong 
that  carry  on  the  same  business  as  an  FI  as  defined  in  the  AMLO,  have 
procedures in place to ensure compliance with the customer due diligence (CDD) 
and record-keeping requirements similar to those imposed under Parts 2 and 3 
of Schedule 2 to the AMLO, to the extent permitted by the laws and regulations 
of the jurisdictions where the branches or subsidiary undertakings operate.  

3.11.  To the extent permitted by the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions involved 
and subject to adequate safeguards on the protection of confidentiality and use 
of  information  being  shared,  including  safeguards  to  prevent  tipping  off,  a 
licensee  should  also  implement  measures,  through  its  group-wide  AML/CFT 
Systems, for: 

(a) 

(b) 

sharing information  required for the purposes of  CDD and ML/TF  risk 
management; and 

the  provision  to  the  licensee’s  group-level  compliance,  audit  and/or 
AML/CFT functions, of customer, account, and transaction information 
from  its  branches  and  subsidiary  undertakings  outside  Hong  Kong  that 
carry  on  the  same  business  as  an  FI  as  defined  in  the  AMLO,  when 
necessary for AML/CFT purposes6.  

3.12. 

If the AML/CFT requirements in the jurisdiction where the branch or subsidiary 
undertaking of a licensee is located (host jurisdiction) differ from those relevant 
requirements referred to in paragraph 3.9, the licensee should require that branch 
or subsidiary undertaking to apply the higher of the two sets of requirements, to 
the extent that the host jurisdiction’s laws and regulations permit.  

5  A licensee should contact the HKMA at an early stage to discuss its intention to establish a branch or 

subsidiary undertakings outside Hong Kong.  

6   This should include information and analysis of transactions or activities which appear unusual (if 
such analysis is done); and may include a suspicious transaction report, its underlying information, 
or the fact that a suspicious transaction report has been submitted.  Similarly, branches and subsidiary 
undertakings  should  receive  such  information  from  the  group-level  functions  when  relevant  and 
appropriate to risk management.  

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
3.13. 

If  the  host  jurisdiction’s  laws  and  regulations  do  not  permit  the  branch  or 
subsidiary undertaking of a licensee to apply the higher AML/CFT requirements, 
particularly the CDD and record-keeping requirements imposed under Parts 2 
and 3 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO, the licensee should: 

(a) 

inform the HKMA of such a situation; and  

(b) 

take additional measures to effectively mitigate ML/TF risks faced by the 
branch or subsidiary undertaking as a result of its inability to comply with 
the requirements. 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 

Customer due diligence 

4.1.  The  term  “stablecoin  holder”  in  this  Guideline  refers  to  a  person  who  has 
possession of the specified stablecoin issued by a licensee.  A person should be 
treated  as  a  customer  of  the  licensee  if  (i)  a  business  relationship7 has  been 
established between the person and the licensee; or (ii) the licensee carries out  
an occasional transaction8 for a person (both (i) and (ii) hereafter referred to as 
“customer” or “customer stablecoin holder”).  Other stablecoin holders that are 
not  the  licensee’s  customers  are  referred  to  as  “non-customer  stablecoin 
holders”.  

4.2.  A licensee should apply an RBA when conducting CDD measures so that the 
extent of CDD measures is commensurate with the ML/TF risks associated with 
its customers (see paragraph 4.18).  

What CDD measures should be applied 

4.3.  The following are CDD measures applicable to a licensee: 

(a) 

identify the customer and verify the customer’s identity using documents, 
data or information provided by a reliable and independent source9; 

(b)  where there is a beneficial owner in relation to the customer, identify and 
take reasonable measures10 to verify the beneficial owner’s identity; 

(c)  obtain  information  on  the  purpose  and  intended  nature  of  the  business 
relationship (if any) established with the licensee unless the purpose and 
intended nature are obvious; and  

(d) 

if a person purports to act on behalf of the customer: 
(i) 

identify  the  person  and  take  reasonable  measures  to  verify  the 
person’s identity using documents, data or information provided by 
a reliable and independent source; and  

(ii)  verify the person’s authority to act on behalf of the customer. 

The term “business relationship” is defined in section 1 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO. 
The term “occasional transaction” is defined in section 1 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO. 

7  
8  
9   A list of reliable and independent sources is provided in section 2 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO. 
10   Reasonable measures mean appropriate measures which are commensurate with the ML/TF risks. 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
When CDD measures should be carried out 

4.4.  A licensee should carry out CDD measures in the following circumstances: 

(a)  before establishing a business relationship with a customer; 

(b)  before  carrying  out  an  occasional  transaction  (e.g.  issuance  and 
redemption of stablecoin) involving an amount equal to or above $8,000 
for a customer11; 

(c)  when the licensee suspects that the customer or the customer’s account is 

involved in ML/TF; or 

(d)  when  the  licensee  doubts  the  veracity  or  adequacy  of  any  information 
previously obtained for the purpose of identifying the customer or for the 
purpose of verifying the customer’s identity. 

4.5.  A  licensee  may,  exceptionally,  verify  the  identity  of  a  customer  and  any 
beneficial  owner  of  the  customer  after  establishing  the  business  relationship, 
provided that: 

(a) 

(b) 

any risk of ML/TF arising from the delayed verification of the customer’s 
or beneficial owner’s identity can be effectively managed;  

it  is  necessary  not  to  interrupt  the  normal  conduct  of  business  with  the 
customer; and 

(c)  verification is completed as soon as reasonably practicable. 

Identification and verification of identity – customer 

4.6.  A licensee should identify the customer and verify the customer’s identity by 
reference  to  documents,  data  or  information  provided  by  a  reliable  and 
independent source12. 

11   For the avoidance of doubt, a licensee should refer to paragraphs 5.9 to 5.12 when carrying out an 

occasional transaction below $8,000. 

12   For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  a  licensee  should  not  establish  business  relationships  or  conduct 

occasional transactions for customers in fictitious names. 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
4.7.  As part of the CDD, a licensee should identify the customer by obtaining at least 

the following identification information: 

(a)  For a customer that is a natural person: 

full name; 

(i) 
(ii)  date of birth; 
(iii)  nationality;  
(iv)  residential address; and 
(v)  unique identification number (e.g. identity card number or passport 

number) and document type. 

(b)  For a customer that is a legal person: 

full name; 

(i) 
(ii)  date of incorporation, establishment or registration; 
(iii)  place  of  incorporation,  establishment  or  registration  (including 

address of registered office); 

(iv)  unique identification number (e.g. incorporation number or business 

registration number) and document type; and  

(v)  principal  place  of  business  (if  different  from  the  address  of 

registered office). 

4.8. 

In verifying the identity of a customer that is a natural person, a licensee should 
verify the name, date of birth, unique identification number and document type 
of the customer by reference to documents, data or information provided by a 
reliable and independent source13, examples of which include: 

(a)  Hong Kong identity card or other national identity card; 

(b)  valid travel document (e.g. unexpired passport); or 

(c)  other relevant documents, data or information provided by a reliable and 
independent source (e.g. document issued by a government body). 

13   The  identification  document  should  contain  a  photograph  of  the  customer.    In  exceptional 
circumstances where a licensee is unable to obtain an identification document with a photograph, 
the  licensee  may  accept  an  identification  document  without  a  photograph  if  the  associated  risks 
have been properly assessed and mitigated. 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
4.9. 

In verifying the identity of a customer that is a legal person, a licensee should 
normally  verify  its  name,  legal  form,  current  existence  (at  the  time  of 
verification) and powers that regulate and bind the legal person by reference to 
documents, data or information provided by a reliable and independent source, 
examples of which include14: 

(a) 

certificate of incorporation; 

(b) 

record in an independent company registry; 

(c) 

certificate of incumbency;  

(d) 

certificate of good standing;  

(e) 

record of registration; 

(f) 

partnership agreement or deed;  

(g) 

constitutional document; or 

(h)  other relevant documents, data or information provided by a reliable and 
independent source (e.g. document issued by a government body). 

4.10.  Where  a  licensee’s  business  model  involves  identifying  and  verifying  the 
identity of a natural person via non-physical / non-face-to-face channels (e.g. an 
electronic channel such as mobile applications or internet), a licensee should: 

(a)  verify  the  identity  of  the  customer  on  the  basis  of  data  or  information 
provided  by  a  digital  identification  system  that  is  a  reliable  and 
independent source recognised by the HKMA; or 

(b) 

employ appropriate technology solutions to mitigate the risks, particularly 
for impersonation risks, when identifying and verifying the identity of a 
natural  person  customer.    The  technology  solutions  adopted  by  the 
licensee should cover the following two aspects: 
(i) 

identity  authentication  –  where  the  natural  person  customer’s 
identity is obtained through electronic channels, the licensee should 
take appropriate technology measures to ensure the reliability of the 
document, data or information obtained for the purpose of verifying 
the customer’s identity; and 
identity matching – the licensee should use appropriate technology 
to link the natural person customer incontrovertibly to the identity 
provided in (i). 

(ii) 

14  

In some instances, a licensee may need to obtain more than one document to meet this requirement.  
For example, a certificate of incorporation can only verify the name and legal form of the legal 
person in most circumstances but cannot act as a proof of current existence.  

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
4.11.  A  licensee  should  obtain  additional  customer  information  that  enables  it  to 
identify,  manage  and  mitigate  the  ML/TF  risks  associated  with  its  delivery 
channels.  Such additional customer information may include but is not limited 
to:  IP  address(es)  with  an  associated  time  stamp,  geo-location  data,  device 
identifiers, wallet addresses, transaction hashes and other electronic identifiers. 

Connected parties 

4.12.  Where a customer is a legal person, a licensee should identify all the connected 
parties15 of the customer (e.g. a director of the customer that is a corporation) 
by obtaining their names.  

Identification and verification of identity – beneficial owner 

4.13.  A  beneficial  owner  refers  to  the  natural  person(s)  who  ultimately  owns  or 
controls  the  customer  or  on  whose  behalf  a  transaction  or  activity  is  being 
conducted.    A  licensee  should  identify  any  beneficial  owner  in  relation  to  a 
customer, and take reasonable measures to verify the beneficial owner’s identity 
so that the licensee is satisfied that it knows who the beneficial owner is16.  

4.14.  For  a  customer  that  is  a  legal  person,  a  licensee  should  identify  any  natural 
person who ultimately has a controlling ownership interest (i.e. more than 25%) 
in the legal person and any natural person exercising control of the legal person 
or its management, and take reasonable measures to verify their identities.  If 
there is no such natural person, the licensee should identify the relevant natural 
persons who hold the positions of senior managing officials, and take reasonable 
measures to verify their identities.  

Ownership and control structure 

4.15.  Where  a  customer  is  not  a  natural  person,  a  licensee  should  understand  its 
ownership  and  control  structure,  including  identification  of  any  intermediate 
layers (e.g. by reviewing an ownership chart of the customer).  The objective is 
to  follow  the  chain  of  ownership  to  the  beneficial  owners  of  the  customer.  
Where a customer has a complex ownership or control structure, the licensee 
should obtain sufficient information for the licensee to satisfy itself that there is 
a legitimate reason behind the particular structure employed. 

15   For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  if  a  connected  party  also  satisfies  the  definition  of  a  customer,  a 
beneficial owner of the customer or a person purporting to act on behalf of the customer, a licensee 
has to identify and verify the identity of that person with reference to relevant requirements set out 
in this Guideline.  

16   Beneficial owner in relation to a corporation is defined in section 1 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO. 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
Identification and verification of identity – person purporting to act on behalf of the 
customer (PPTA) 

4.16.  A licensee should identify and verify the identity of the PPTA in line with the 
identification  and  verification  requirements  for  a  customer  that  is  a  natural 
person or  a legal  person,  as  appropriate.   The licensee should  also  verify the 
authority of each PPTA by  obtaining  appropriate documentary evidence (e.g. 
board resolution or similar written authorisation). 

Purpose and intended nature of business relationship 

4.17.  A licensee should understand the purpose and intended nature of the business 
relationship.  In some instances, this will be self-evident, but in many cases, the 
licensee  may  have  to  obtain  information  in  this  regard.    The  information 
obtained by the licensee to understand the purpose and intended nature should 
be  commensurate  with  the  risk  profile  of  the  customer  and  the  nature  of  the 
business relationship.  In addition, where a customer is not a natural person, a 
licensee should also understand the nature of the customer’s business. 

Risk-based approach to CDD 

4.18.  A  licensee  should  in  general  carry  out  all  the  four  CDD  measures  set  out  in 
paragraph  4.3  before  establishing  a  business  relationship  with  a  customer  or 
before  carrying  out  a  specified  occasional  transaction  for  a  customer.    The 
licensee should determine the extent of the four  CDD measures  following an 
RBA.    The  licensee  should  apply  enhanced  due  diligence  (EDD)  measures 
where  the  ML/TF  risks  are  high 17.    The  licensee  may  apply  simplified  due 
diligence (SDD) measures where the ML/TF risks are low.  The EDD or SDD 
measures applied should be commensurate with the nature and level of ML/TF 
risks  identified  by  the  licensee  which  should  be  supported  by  an  adequate 
analysis of ML/TF risks18.  

17   These may include a situation by its nature presenting a high ML/TF risk or a situation specified by 

the HKMA in a notice in writing given to the licensee.  

18   A licensee can take into account customer risk factors; country risk factors; and product, service, 
transaction or delivery channel risk factors in assessing the level of ML/TF risks; and apply SDD 
requirements following section 4, Schedule 2 to the AMLO or EDD requirements following section 
15, Schedule 2 to the AMLO.  

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
4.19.  SDD measures should not be applied or continue to be applied, where:  

(a) 

a licensee’s risk assessment changes and it no longer considers that there 
is a low degree of ML/TF risk;  

(b)  where the licensee suspects ML or TF; or  

(c)  where  there  are  doubts  about  the  veracity  or  accuracy  of  documents  or 
information  previously  obtained  for  the  purposes  of  identification  or 
verification.  

4.20.  A  licensee  should  obtain  approval  from  its  senior  management  to  establish  a 
business relationship that presents a high ML/TF risk, or continue an existing 
business  relationship  where  the  relationship  subsequently  presents  a  high 
ML/TF risk. 

Customer that is a third-party entity involved in distribution of specified stablecoins19 

4.21.  A licensee may enter into arrangements with third-party entities (e.g. a permitted 
offeror defined in section 9 of the Stablecoins Ordinance) for the distribution of 
specified  stablecoins  it  issues.    Such  third-party  entities  are  customers  of  the 
licensee.    The  licensee  should  apply  the  following  additional  due  diligence 
measures on the third-party entity adopting an RBA: 

(a) 

collect  sufficient  information  about  the  third-party  entity  to  enable  the 
licensee to understand fully the nature of the third-party entity’s business;  

(b)  determine  from  publicly  available  information  (i)  the  reputation  of  the 
third-party entity; and (ii) the quality and effectiveness of the AML/CFT 
regulation and supervision over the third-party entity by authorities in the 
jurisdictions in which it operates and/or is incorporated; and  

(c) 

assess the AML/CFT controls of the third-party entity and be satisfied that 
they are adequate and effective. 

19   A  licensee  may  apply  the  same  additional  due  diligence  measures  to  other  third-party  entities 

engaged by the licensee. 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
Politically exposed persons (PEPs) 

4.22.  A licensee should establish and maintain effective procedures for determining 

whether a customer or a beneficial owner of a customer is a PEP20.   

4.23.  Where  a  customer  or  a  beneficial  owner  of  a  customer  is  a  non-Hong  Kong 
PEP21, a licensee should take reasonable measures to establish the customer’s 
or  the  beneficial  owner’s  source  of  wealth  and  source  of  funds  before  (i) 
establishing  a  business  relationship;  or  (ii)  continuing  an  existing  business 
relationship where the customer or the beneficial owner is subsequently found 
to be a non-Hong Kong PEP.  The licensee should also obtain approval from its 
senior  management  for  establishing  or  continuing  such  business  relationship 
with  a  non-Hong  Kong  PEP.    The  same  requirements  apply  to  Hong  Kong 
PEPs22 and international organisation PEPs23 when the licensee has a business 
relationship with such a person and identifies a higher risk of ML/TF.   

Including non-Hong Kong PEPs, Hong Kong PEPs and international organisation PEPs.  

20  
21   A non-Hong Kong PEP is defined as: 

(a)   an individual who is or has been entrusted with a prominent public function in a place outside 

Hong Kong, and  
(i)  includes a head of state, head of government, senior politician, senior government, judicial 
or  military  official,  senior  executive  of  a  state-owned  corporation  and  an  important 
political party official; 

(ii) but  does  not  include  a  middle-ranking  or  more  junior  official  of  any  of  the  categories 

mentioned in subparagraph (i); 

(b)  a spouse, a partner, a child or a parent of an individual falling within paragraph (a) above, or 

a spouse or a partner of a child of such an individual; or 
(c)  a close associate of an individual falling within paragraph (a). 

22   A Hong Kong PEP is defined as:  

(a)   an individual who is or has been entrusted with a prominent public function in Hong Kong, 

and 
(i) includes a  head of  government,  senior politician, senior government or judicial official, 
senior  executive  of  a  government-owned  corporation  and  an  important  political  party 
official;  

(ii)  but  does  not  include  a  middle-ranking  or  more  junior  official  of  any  of  the  categories 

mentioned in subparagraph (i);  

(b)   a spouse, a partner, a child or a parent of an individual falling within paragraph (a) above, or 

a spouse or a partner of a child of such an individual; or  
(c)   a close associate of an individual falling within paragraph (a). 

23   An international organisation PEP is defined as: 

(a)  an  individual  who  is  or  has  been  entrusted  with  a  prominent  function  by  an  international 

organisation, and  
(i)  includes members of senior management, i.e. directors, deputy directors and members of 

the board or equivalent functions;  

(ii) but  does  not  include  a  middle-ranking  or  more  junior  official  of  the  international 

organisation; 

(b)  a spouse, a partner, a child or a parent of an individual falling within paragraph (a) above, or 

a spouse or a partner of a child of such an individual; or 
(c)  a close associate of an individual falling within paragraph (a). 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
4.24.  Following an RBA, a licensee may decide not to apply, or not to continue to 
apply, the measures set out in paragraphs 4.23 to a former PEP who no longer 
presents a high risk of ML/TF after stepping down from the position that led to 
them being regarded as a PEP24.  To determine whether a former PEP no longer 
presents  a  high  risk  of  ML/TF,  the  licensee  should  conduct  an  appropriate 
assessment of the ML/TF risk associated with the previous PEP status. 

Reliance on CDD performed by intermediaries 

4.25.  A  licensee  may  rely  upon  an  intermediary25 to  perform  any  part  of  the  CDD 
measures26 set out in paragraphs 4.3 subject to the applicable criteria set out in 
section 18 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO.  However, the ultimate responsibility 
for ensuring that CDD requirements are met remains with the licensee.  

4.26.  When relying on an intermediary, a licensee should: 

(a)  obtain written confirmation from the intermediary that the intermediary 
agrees  to  act  as  the  licensee’s  intermediary  and  which  CDD  measures 
specified in section 2 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO the intermediary will 
perform; and 

(b)  be satisfied that the intermediary will on request provide a copy  of any 
document,  or  a  record  of  any  data  or  information,  obtained  by  the 
intermediary  in  the  course  of  carrying  out  the  CDD  measures  without 
delay.  

4.27.  A licensee that carries out a CDD measure by means of an intermediary should, 
immediately after the intermediary has carried out that measure, obtain from the 
intermediary the data or information that the intermediary has obtained in the 
course of carrying out that measure, but nothing in this paragraph requires the 
licensee to obtain at the same time from the intermediary a copy of the document, 
or a record of the data or information, that is obtained by the intermediary in the 
course of carrying out that measure. 

24   The handling of a former non-Hong Kong PEP should be based on an assessment of risk and not 

merely on prescribed time limits. 

25   A list of permitted intermediaries is specified in section 18(3) of Schedule 2 to the AMLO.  
26   For the avoidance of doubt, a licensee cannot rely on an intermediary to continuously monitor its 
business relationship with a customer for the purpose of complying with the requirements in section 
5 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO. 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
4.28.  Where  these  documents  and  records  are  kept  by  the  intermediary,  a  licensee 
should obtain an undertaking from the intermediary to keep all underlying CDD 
information throughout the continuance of the licensee’s business relationship 
with the customer and for at least five years beginning on the date on which the 
business relationship of the customer with the licensee ends or until such time 
as  may  be  specified  by  the  HKMA.    The  licensee  should  ensure  that  the 
intermediary will, if requested by the licensee within the period specified in the 
record-keeping requirements of the AMLO, provide to the licensee a copy of 
any  document,  or  a  record  of  any  data  or  information,  obtained  by  the 
intermediary in the course of carrying out that measure as soon as reasonably 
practicable  after  receiving  the  request.    The  licensee  should  also  obtain  an 
undertaking  from  the  intermediary  to  supply  copies  of  all  underlying  CDD 
information in circumstances where the intermediary is about to cease trading 
or does not act as an intermediary for the licensee anymore.  The licensee should 
conduct  sample  tests  from  time  to  time  to  ensure  CDD  information  and 
documentation is produced by the intermediary upon demand and without undue 
delay. 

4.29.  Whenever a licensee has doubts as to the reliability of the intermediary, it should 
take reasonable steps to review the intermediary’s ability to perform its CDD 
duties.  If the licensee intends to terminate its relationship with the intermediary, 
it should immediately obtain all CDD information from the intermediary.  If the 
licensee  has  any  doubts  regarding  the  CDD  measures  carried  out  by  the 
intermediary previously, the licensee should perform the required CDD as soon 
as reasonably practicable. 

Failure to satisfactorily complete CDD 

4.30.  Where a licensee is unable to comply with the relevant CDD requirements set 
out in this Chapter, it should not establish a business relationship or carry out 
any  occasional  transaction  with  that  customer,  or  should  terminate  business 
relationship  with  the  customer  as  soon  as  reasonably  practicable  (where 
applicable), and where there is relevant knowledge or suspicion, should make a 
suspicious transaction report (STR) to the JFIU. 

Jurisdictions subject to a call by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) 

4.31.  A licensee should apply EDD measures (see paragraph 4.18), proportionate to 
the  risks,  to  business  relationships  and  transactions  with  natural  and  legal 
persons (including FIs) from jurisdictions for which such measures are called 
for by the FATF. 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.32.  Where mandatory EDD or countermeasures27 are called for by the FATF, or in 
other circumstances independent of any call by the FATF but considered to be 
of higher risk, the HKMA may also, through a notice in writing: 

(a) 

impose a general obligation on a licensee to comply with the requirements 
to apply EDD measures set out in section 15 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO; 
or 

(b) 

require  the  licensee  to  undertake  specific  countermeasures  described  in 
the notice.  

The type of measures in paragraph (a) and (b)  should be proportionate to the 
nature of the risks and/or deficiencies existing in the AML/CFT regime of the 
relevant jurisdiction. 

Risk management of customers’ wallets 

4.33.  Unlike traditional FIs (e.g. banks) where customers’ funds or assets are held in 
accounts provided by FIs, licensees may or may not provide custodial services 
(i.e.  the  wallets  to  hold  the  stablecoins)  to  holders  of  their  stablecoins.    If  a 
licensee does not provide custodial services, the holders of its stablecoins will 
have to use wallets provided by custodial wallet providers, which may be FIs or 
VASPs; or unhosted wallets (sometimes also referred to as self-hosted or self-
custody wallets).   

4.34.  An unhosted wallet refers to software or hardware that enables a person to store 
and transfer VAs, including stablecoins, and in relation to which the private key 
is held or controlled by that person.  Unhosted wallets may allow a person to 
transfer  VAs  peer-to-peer  without  involvement  of  an  AML/CFT-obliged 
intermediary.  This decentralised nature and lack of regulatory oversight may be 
particularly attractive to  illicit  actors or money launderers.   Licensees should 
refer to paragraphs 5.9 to 5.12 for additional guidance.   

4.35.  A licensee should properly manage any ML/TF risks associated with the wallets 
used  by  its  customers  to  receive  stablecoins  from  the  licensee  at  issuance  or 
return the stablecoin(s) to the licensee at redemption. 

27   For  jurisdictions  with  serious  deficiencies  in  applying  the  FATF  Recommendations  and  where 
inadequate  progress  has  been  made  to  improve  their  positions,  the  FATF  may  recommend  the 
application of countermeasures. 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
4.36.  A  licensee  should  identify  a  customer’s  wallet  address  and  ascertain  that  the 

customer owns or controls the wallet by28:  

(a)  using  appropriate  confirmation  methods  to  test  the  ownership  (e.g. 
requesting the customer to perform a micropayment test (i.e. by effecting 
a transfer of a small amount specified by the licensee) or message signing 
test  (i.e.  by  signing  a  message  specified  by  the  licensee  which  is  then 
verified by the licensee)); 

(b)  obtaining  evidence  from  the  customer,  such  as  statements  of  account 

issued by the custodial wallet provider; or  

(c)  other appropriate and effective measures.   

4.37. 

If a  customer’s  wallet  is  provided by a  custodial wallet  provider or is  a  self-
hosted wallet used by an FI or a VASP29, a licensee should apply the following 
due diligence measures adopting an RBA: 

(a) 

collect sufficient information about the custodial wallet provider or self-
hosted wallet’s owner to enable the licensee to understand fully the nature 
of its business; 

(b)  determine  from  publicly  available  information  (i)  the  reputation  of  the 
custodial wallet provider or self-hosted wallet’s owner; and (ii) the quality 
and effectiveness  of the  AML/CFT regulation  and supervision  over  the 
custodial wallet provider or self-hosted wallet’s owner by authorities in 
the jurisdictions in which it operates and/or is incorporated; and 

(c) 

assess  the  AML/CFT  controls  of  the  custodial  wallet  provider  or  self-
hosted wallet’s owner, and be satisfied that they are adequate and effective. 

4.38.  A licensee does not need to update the due diligence measures in paragraph 4.37 
for  each  stablecoin  transfer  at  issuance  or  at  redemption,  unless  there  is 
suspicion of ML/TF or when the licensee is aware of any heightened ML/TF 
risks  from  its  ongoing  monitoring  of  transactions  with  the  custodial  wallet 
provider.   

28   Checking of ownership or control may need to be conducted periodically and/or on a risk sensitive 
basis  depending  on  the  circumstances  (e.g.  if  a  licensee  suspects  the  ownership  of  a  wallet  has 
changed).  

29   An FI  or a VASP  may  use a self-hosted  wallet to safe keep VAs or stablecoins on behalf of its 

customers.  

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
4.39.  When a customer uses an unhosted wallet (other than those covered in paragraph 
4.37) to receive stablecoins from a licensee at issuance or return stablecoins to 
a licensee at redemption, the licensee should screen the wallet address in order 
to  identify  any  transaction  involving  the  wallet  address  that  is  directly  or 
indirectly associated with illicit or suspicious activities/sources, or designated 
parties  (see  paragraphs  5.4,  5.5,  5.7  and  5.8  for  more  guidance) 30.    If  the 
screening result indicates the wallet has a higher ML/TF risk, the licensee should 
conduct additional control measures before completing the respective issuance 
or redemption processes, for example:  

(a) 

enhanced  monitoring  of  stablecoin  transfers  with  the  unhosted  wallet; 
and/or  

(b) 

imposing transaction limits31. 

4.40.  To facilitate prompt identification of wallets, a licensee may maintain a list of 
customers’ wallet addresses which have been subject to the measures set out in 
paragraphs 4.36 to 4.39 (where applicable).  

30   Screening of the wallet addresses should also be conducted when the due  diligence measures set 
out in paragraph 4.37 cannot be conducted to a satisfactory level (e.g. if the custodial wallet provider 
is not yet subject to AML/CFT regulation and supervision). 
For  example,  a  licensee  may  place  appropriate  limits  on  the  amount  of  stablecoin  transfers  or 
transfers of stablecoins with unhosted wallets. 

31 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
5.  Ongoing monitoring 

5.1.  Ongoing monitoring is an essential component of effective AML/CFT Systems.  
Unlike other FIs or VASPs (e.g. banks or SFC-licensed VA trading platforms) 
which serve as intermediaries to conduct various financial transactions on behalf 
of their customers, a licensee’s main activities revolve around the issuance and 
redemption of stablecoins.  The approach to ongoing monitoring of suspicious 
activities may vary from licensee to licensee, depending on their business and 
operating models, and the associated ML/TF risks.   

Ongoing monitoring of business relationships with customers 

5.2.  A  licensee  should  continuously  monitor  its  business  relationship  with  a 

customer in two aspects: 

(a)  ongoing  CDD:  reviewing  from  time  to  time  documents,  data  and 
information  relating  to  the  customer  that  have  been  obtained  by  the 
licensee  for  the  purpose  of  complying  with  the  requirements  imposed 
under this Guideline and Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO to ensure that 
they are up-to-date and relevant; and 

(b) 

transaction monitoring:  
(i) 

conducting appropriate scrutiny of transactions carried out for the 
customer  to  ensure  that  they  are  consistent  with  the  licensee’s 
knowledge of the customer, the customer’s business, risk profile and 
source of funds; and 
identifying  transactions  that  (i)  are  complex,  unusually  large  in 
amount or of an unusual pattern; and (ii) have no apparent economic 
or lawful purpose, and examining the background and purposes of 
those transactions and setting out the findings in writing. 

(ii) 

5.3.  To ensure documents, data and information of a customer obtained are up-to-
date  and  relevant 32 ,  a  licensee  should  undertake  reviews  of  existing  CDD 
records of customers on a regular basis and/or upon trigger events following an 
RBA.    Clear  policies  and  procedures  should  be  developed,  especially  on  the 
frequency of periodic reviews or what constitutes a trigger event. 

32   Keeping the CDD information up-to-date and relevant does not mean that a licensee has to re-verify 
identities  that  have  been  verified  (unless  doubts  arise  as  to  the  veracity  or  adequacy  of  the 
information previously obtained for the purposes of customer identification and verification). 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
5.4.  A licensee should also implement effective risk-based transaction monitoring 
systems  and  processes  at  issuance  and  at  redemption  to  identify  and  report 
suspicious transactions.  In addition, a licensee should establish and maintain 
adequate and effective systems and controls to conduct screening of stablecoin 
transactions  (i.e.  transferring  stablecoins  to  or  from  customers)  and  the 
associated  wallet  addresses.    In  this  connection,  the  licensee  should  adopt 
appropriate technological solutions (e.g. blockchain analytic tools33) to:  

(a) 

(b) 

track the transaction history of stablecoins to more accurately identify the 
source34 and destination of these stablecoins; and  

identify  transactions  involving  wallet  addresses  that  are  directly  and/or 
indirectly  associated  with  illicit  or  suspicious  activities/sources 35 ,  or 
designated parties.  

5.5.  Where a licensee employs a technological solution provided by an external party 
to  conduct  screening  of  stablecoin  transactions  and  the  associated  wallet 
addresses,  the  licensee  remains  responsible  for  discharging  its  AML/CFT 
obligations.  The licensee should conduct due diligence on the solution before 
deploying it, taking into account relevant factors such as:  

(a) 

the quality and effectiveness of the tracking and detection tools; 

(b) 

(c) 

the coverage, accuracy and reliability of the information maintained in the 
database  that  supports  its  screening  capability  (e.g.  whether  the  list  of 
wallet addresses that are directly and/or indirectly associated with illicit 
or suspicious activities/sources, or designated parties, is subject to timely 
review and update); and 

any limitations (e.g. limited reach of the blockchain analytical tools; or 
inability  to  deal  with  VA  or  wallet  addresses  involving  the  use  of 
anonymity-enhancing  technologies  or  mechanisms  such  as  anonymity-
enhanced VAs, mixers or tumblers). 

33   Blockchain analytic tools typically enable their users to trace the on-chain history of specific virtual 
assets.  These tools support a number of common virtual assets and compare transaction histories 
against a database of wallet addresses connected to illicit or suspicious activities/sources, and flag 
identified transactions. 

34   For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  a  licensee  does  not  need  to  identify  the  source  of  the  stablecoin  at 

35  

issuance as the source is from the licensee.  
Illicit activities include, for example, ransomware attack, fraud, identity theft, phishing attack, and 
other  cybercrimes;  and  suspicious  activities/sources  include,  for  example,  darknet  marketplaces, 
unlicensed online gambling services, peel chains and use of anonymity-enhancing technologies or 
mechanisms (e.g. mixers, tumblers and privacy wallets).  In addition, any wallet addresses owned 
or controlled by customers with which the licensee has decided not to establish or continue business 
relationships due to suspicion of ML/TF should be included as those associated  with suspicious 
sources. 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
5.6.  A licensee should, where applicable, monitor the additional information (i.e. IP 
addresses  with  associated  time  stamps,  geo-location  data,  device  identifiers, 
metadata and other electronic identifiers) obtained by the licensee on an ongoing 
basis  to  identify  suspicious  transactions  and  activities  and  take  appropriate 
follow-up actions.  

5.7.  A licensee should take appropriate steps (e.g. examining the background and 
purposes  of  the  transactions;  making  appropriate  enquiries  to  or  obtaining 
additional  CDD  information  from  a  customer)  to  identify  if  there  are  any 
grounds for suspicion, when:  

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  customer’s  transactions  are  not  consistent  with  the  licensee’s 
knowledge of the customer, the customer’s business, risk profile or source 
of funds;  

the licensee identifies transactions or a series of transactions that (i) are 
complex, unusually large in amount or of an unusual pattern, and (ii) have 
no apparent economic or lawful purpose36; or  

the  licensee  identifies  transactions  or  a  series  of  transactions  involving 
wallet addresses that are directly and/or indirectly associated with illicit 
or suspicious activities/sources, or designated parties.  

5.8.  Where a licensee becomes aware of any heightened ML/TF risks from ongoing 
monitoring  of  business  relationships  with  its  customers  and  screening  of 
stablecoin transactions and the associated wallet addresses, the licensee should 
apply  EDD  measures  and  ongoing  monitoring,  and  take  other  additional 
preventive  or  mitigating  actions  as  necessary  to  mitigate  the  ML/TF  risks 
involved.   

Ongoing monitoring for stablecoins in circulation  

5.9.  A licensee, as an AML/CFT-obliged entity, has a responsibility for maintaining 
effective  functioning  of  its  stablecoins  and  guarding  against  the  risk  of  their 
misuse for unlawful purposes.  Ongoing monitoring of stablecoins in circulation 
is crucial for the licensee to discharge its AML/CFT responsibilities.  The extent 
of such ongoing monitoring should be proportionate to the associated ML/TF 
risks identified in the licensee’s institutional risk assessment (see paragraph 2.2), 
taking  into  account  the  nature  of  the  licensee’s  business  model  (e.g.  open  or 
closed-loop). 

36   A licensee should examine the background and purposes of the transactions and set out its findings 

in writing. 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
5.10.  All  on-chain  stablecoin  transactions 37  are  recorded  instantaneously  and 
automatically on the blockchains  on which they  take place,  and such records 
provide  some  traceability  of  transactions  which  can  aid  in  identification  of 
potential illicit activities, as well as wallet addresses involved in such activities.  
Subject  to  paragraph  5.11,  a  licensee  may  apply  various  measures  to  guard 
against  the  risks  of  stablecoins  being  used  for  illicit  activities.    Examples  of 
possible measures include: 

(a) 

adopting  appropriate  technological  solutions  (e.g.  blockchain  analytic 
tools)  to  screen  stablecoin  transactions  and  associated  wallet  addresses 
beyond the primary distribution venue on an ongoing basis;  

(b)  blacklisting of wallet addresses which are identified to be sanctioned or 

associated with illicit activities; and/or 

(c) 

freezing the stablecoin promptly upon receiving requests from regulators 
or law enforcement agencies, or court orders. 

5.11.  As the effectiveness of these risk mitigating measures is yet to be proven, the 
HKMA expects licensees to adopt a cautious approach in determining whether 
their systems are adequate for mitigating ML/TF risks associated with licensed 
stablecoin  activities,  in  particular  as  regards  peer-to-peer  transfers  between 
unhosted  wallets.    Unless  a  licensee  can  demonstrate  to  the  HKMA’s 
satisfaction that these risk mitigating measures are effective in preventing and 
combating ML/TF and other crimes, the identity of each individual stablecoin 
holder should be verified (i) by the licensee even if the holder has no customer 
relationship with the licensee; (ii) by an appropriately supervised FI or VASP; 
or (iii) by a reliable third party.   

5.12. 

If  a  licensee  identifies  any  stablecoin  transactions  or  the  associated  wallet 
addresses that are directly and/or indirectly associated with illicit or suspicious 
activities/sources, or designated parties, the licensee should promptly undertake 
further investigations and analyses.  If there are any grounds for suspicion; the 
licensee  should  report  the  suspicious  transactions  to  the  JFIU  and  take 
appropriate follow-up actions as stated in Chapter 8 of this Guideline. 

37   For example, time, date, transaction hash and wallet addresses.  

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
6. 

Stablecoin transfers 

6.1.  This  Chapter  provides  guidance  on  how  a  licensee  should  comply  with  the 
requirements  with  regard  to  stablecoin  transfers  set  out  in  section  13A  of 
Schedule  2  to  the  AMLO,  in  circumstances  where  a  transfer  of  stablecoins 
issued  by  a  licensee  falls  under  the  definition  of  stablecoin  transfer  (see 
paragraph 6.3).  

6.2.  To  prevent  criminals  and  terrorists  from  having  unfettered  opportunities  to 
move their assets through stablecoin transfers and to detect such misuse when it 
occurs,  a  licensee  must  take  all  reasonable  measures  to  ensure  that  proper 
safeguards exist to mitigate the ML/TF risks associated with stablecoin transfers.  
In particular, a licensee should establish and maintain effective procedures to 
ensure compliance with: 

(a) 

the  stablecoin  transfer  requirements  under  paragraphs  6.5  to  6.24  (also 
called the travel rule38); and 

(b)  other relevant requirements under paragraphs 6.25 to 6.42,  

to  enable  it  to  effectively  carry  out  sanctions  screening  and  transaction 
monitoring procedures on all relevant parties involved in a stablecoin transfer. 

Stablecoin transfers between a licensee and another institution 

6.3.  A stablecoin transfer is a transaction carried out: 

(a)  by  an  institution  (the  ordering  institution)  on  behalf  of  a  person  (the 

originator) by transferring any stablecoin; and 

(b) 

 with a view to making the stablecoin available: 
(i) 
(ii)  at  an  institution  (the  beneficiary  institution),  which  may  be  the 

to that person or another person (the recipient); and  

ordering institution or another institution, 

whether  or  not  one  or  more  other  institutions  (intermediary  institutions) 
participate in the completion of the transfer. 

38   The  travel  rule  refers  to  the  application  of  the  wire  transfer  requirements  set  out  in  FATF 
Recommendation 16 in a modified form in the context of virtual asset transfers (in particular, the 
requirements to obtain, hold,  and submit required and accurate  originator and required recipient 
information  immediately  and  securely  when  conducting  virtual  asset  transfers),  recognising  the 
unique technological properties of virtual assets. 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
6.4. 

Depending on its business model, a licensee may act as an ordering institution, 
an  intermediary  institution  or  a  beneficial  institution  in  a  stablecoin  transfer.  
The licensee should follow the relevant requirements set out in this Chapter with 
reference to its role in a stablecoin transfer. 

Ordering institutions  

6.5.  Before  carrying  out  a  stablecoin  transfer  involving  an  amount  not  less  than 
$8,000, an ordering institution must obtain and record the following originator 
and recipient information39: 

(a) 

the originator’s name; 

(b) 

the  number  of  the  originator’s  account  maintained  with  the  ordering 
institution and from which the stablecoins are transferred (i.e. the account 
used to process the transaction) or, in the absence of such an account, a 
unique  reference  number  assigned  to  the  stablecoin  transfer  by  the 
ordering institution; 

(c) 

the  originator’s  address 40 ,  the  originator’s  customer  identification 
number41 or  identification  document  number  or,  if  the  originator  is  an 
individual, the originator’s date and place of birth; 

(d) 

the recipient’s name; and 

(e) 

the  number  of  the  recipient’s  account  maintained  with  the  beneficiary 
institution and to  which the  stablecoins are transferred  (i.e. the account 
used to process the transaction) or, in the absence of such an account, a 
unique  reference  number  assigned  to  the  stablecoin  transfer  by  the 
beneficiary institution.  

39   For the avoidance of doubt, in relation to stablecoin transfers carried out for a customer, a licensee 
is not required to obtain the originator information from the customer that is the originator before 
carrying out every individual stablecoin transfer (unless doubts arise as to veracity or adequacy of 
the information previously obtained for the purposes of customer identification and verification). 

40   The originator’s address refers to the geographical address of the originator (i.e. residential address 
of an originator that is a natural person; or the address of the registered office (or principal place of 
business if different from the registered office) of an originator that is a legal person, a trust or other 
similar legal arrangement). 

41   Customer  identification  number  means  a  number  which  uniquely  identifies  the  originator  to  the 
ordering institution and is a different number from the unique transaction reference number referred 
to in paragraph 6.8.  The customer identification number must refer to a record held by the ordering 
institution  which  contains  at  least  one  of  the  following:  the  customer’s  address,  identification 
document number, or date and place of birth. 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
6.6.  Before carrying out a stablecoin transfer involving an amount less than $8,000, 
an  ordering  institution  must  obtain  and  record  the  following  originator  and 
recipient information: 

(a) 

the originator’s name; 

(b) 

the  number  of  the  originator’s  account  maintained  with  the  ordering 
institution  and  from  which  the  stablecoins  are  transferred  or,  in  the 
absence of such an account,  a unique reference number assigned to  the 
stablecoin transfer by the ordering institution; 

(c) 

the recipient’s name; and 

(d) 

the  number  of  the  recipient’s  account  maintained  with  the  beneficiary 
institution and to which the stablecoins are transferred or, in the absence 
of such an account, a unique reference number assigned to the stablecoin 
transfer by the beneficiary institution. 

6.7.  Where  applicable,  the  number  of  the  account  maintained  with  the  ordering 
institution  or  beneficiary  institution  from  or  to  which  the  stablecoins  are 
transferred referred to in paragraphs 6.5 and 6.6 may mean the wallet address of 
the originator or recipient maintained with the ordering institution or beneficiary 
institution and used to process the transaction. 

6.8.  The unique reference number assigned to the stablecoin transfer by the ordering 
institution or beneficiary institution referred to in paragraphs 6.5 and 6.6 should 
permit traceability of the stablecoin transfer. 

6.9.  An  ordering  institution  must  submit  the  required  originator  and  recipient 
information obtained and held under paragraphs 6.5 and 6.6 (hereafter referred 
to  as  “required  information”)  to  the  beneficiary  institution  securely  (see 
paragraph 6.12). 

6.10. 

In addition, the ordering institution must submit the required information to the 
beneficiary institution immediately (see paragraph 6.13). 

6.11.  For the avoidance of doubt, the required information may be submitted either 
directly or indirectly to the beneficiary institution provided that it is submitted 
in accordance with the requirements set out in paragraphs 6.9 and 6.10.  This 
means that it is not necessary for the required information to be attached directly 
to, or be included in, the stablecoin transfer itself. 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.12.  “Securely”  means  that  the  ordering  institution  should  store  and  submit  the 
required information in a secure manner to protect the integrity and availability 
of the required information for facilitating record-keeping and the use of such 
information  by 
the 
intermediary institution, in fulfilling its AML/CFT obligations42; and protect the 
information from unauthorised access or disclosure.  To ensure that the required 
information is submitted in a secure manner, an ordering institution should43: 

institution  and,  where  applicable, 

the  beneficiary 

(a)  undertake the stablecoin transfer counterparty due diligence measures as 
set out in paragraphs 6.28 to 6.39 to determine whether the beneficiary 
institution  and,  where  applicable,  the  intermediary  institution  can 
reasonably  be  expected  to  adequately  protect  the  confidentiality  and 
integrity of the information submitted to them; and 

(b) 

take other appropriate measures and controls, for example: 

(i) 

entering into a bilateral data sharing agreement with the beneficiary 
institution and, where applicable, the intermediary institution and/or 
(where applicable) a service-level agreement with the technological 
solution provider for travel rule compliance (see paragraphs 6.25 to 
6.27) which specifies the responsibilities of the institutions involved 
and/or of the provider to ensure the protection of the confidentiality 
and integrity of the information submitted;  

(ii)  using, or ensuring the technological solution adopted for travel rule 
compliance (where applicable) uses, a strong encryption algorithm 
to encrypt the information during the data submission; and  
implementing  adequate  information  security  controls  to  prevent 
unauthorised access, disclosure or alteration. 

(iii) 

For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  an  ordering  institution  should  not  execute  a 
stablecoin  transfer  unless  it  can  ensure  that  the  required  information  can  be 
submitted  to  a  beneficiary  institution,  and  where  applicable,  an  intermediary 
institution,  in  a  secure  manner  having  regard  to  the  above  guidance  and  the 
stablecoin transfer counterparty due diligence results. 

42   AML/CFT  obligations  include,  among  others,  identifying  and  reporting  suspicious  stablecoin 
transfers, taking freezing actions and prohibiting stablecoin transfers with designated persons and 
entities. 

43   An  ordering  institution  should  give  due  regard  to  the  laws  and  regulations  on  privacy  and  data 
protection of the jurisdictions in which the ordering institution operates and/or is incorporated. 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
6.13.  “Immediately” means that the ordering institution should submit the required 
information  prior  to,  or  simultaneously  or  concurrently  with,  the  stablecoin 
transfer (i.e. the submission must occur before or when the stablecoin transfer 
is conducted)44.  

6.14.  An ordering institution should keep records and relevant documents so that it 
can  demonstrate  to  the  relevant  authority  whether  and  how  the  required 
information  is  submitted  to  a  beneficiary  institution  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set out in paragraphs 6.9 and 6.1045.  

6.15.  For a stablecoin transfer involving an amount not less than $8,000, an ordering 
institution must ensure that the required originator information submitted with 
the stablecoin transfer is accurate46.  

6.16.  For an occasional stablecoin transfer involving an amount not less than $8,000, 
an  ordering  institution  must  verify  the  identity  of  the  originator 47 .  For  an 
occasional  stablecoin  transfer  involving  an  amount  less  than  $8,000,  the 
ordering institution is in general not required to verify the originator’s identity, 
except when several transactions are carried out which appear to the ordering 
institution to be linked and amount to not less than $8,000, or when there is a 
suspicion of ML/TF.  

6.17.  The ordering institution should not execute a  stablecoin transfer unless it has 

ensured compliance with the requirements in paragraphs 6.5 to 6.16.  

44   Where an intermediary institution is involved in a stablecoin transfer, an ordering institution should 
undertake the stablecoin transfer counterparty due diligence measures as set out in paragraphs 6.28 
to 6.39 to determine if the intermediary institution can submit the required information immediately 
to the beneficiary institution, or where applicable, another intermediary institution and should not 
execute the stablecoin transfer if the intermediary institution is unable to do so. 

45   For the avoidance of doubt, where a technological solution is adopted for travel rule compliance, 
the ordering institution should keep any records or relevant documents of its due diligence on the 
technological  solution. In addition,  where an intermediary institution is involved in a  stablecoin 
transfer,  the  ordering  institution  should  keep  records  and  relevant  documents  that  demonstrate 
whether and how the required information is submitted to the beneficiary institution through the 
intermediary institution in accordance with the requirements set out in paragraphs 6.9 and 6.10. 
“Accurate”  in  this  context  means  information  that  has  been  verified  for  accuracy  as  part  of  the 
ordering institution’s CDD process.  For example, if the originator’s address is part of the required 
information to be submitted by the ordering institution, the ordering institution should ensure that 
the  originator’s  address  is  accurate  having  regard  to  the  CDD  information  obtained  pursuant  to 
Chapter 4 as appropriate. 

46  

47   For the avoidance of doubt, where the originator is a customer of a licensee, the licensee does not 
need to re-verify the identity of the customer that has been verified (unless doubts arise as to  the 
veracity  or  adequacy  of  the  information  previously  obtained  for  the  purposes  of  customer 
identification and verification). 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
Intermediary institutions 

6.18.  An  intermediary  institution  must  ensure  that  all  originator  and  recipient 
information  as  set  out  in  paragraphs  6.5  and  6.6  which  the  intermediary 
institution receives in connection with the stablecoin transfer is retained with 
the  required  information  submission,  and  is  transmitted  to  the  institution  to 
which it passes on the transfer instruction48.  

6.19.  As with the submission of the required information by an ordering institution, 
an intermediary institution should transmit the aforesaid information to another 
intermediary  institution  or  the  beneficiary  institution  in  accordance  with  the 
manner  set  out  in  paragraphs  6.12  to  6.13  and  the  requirement  set  out  in 
paragraph 6.1449.  

Beneficiary institutions  

6.20.  A  beneficiary  institution  must  obtain  and  record  the  required  information 
submitted to it by the institution from which it receives the transfer instruction50.  

6.21.  For a stablecoin transfer involving an amount not less than $8,000, a beneficiary 
institution should verify the identity of the recipient if the identity has not been 
previously  verified  as  part  of  its  CDD  process.  The  beneficiary  institution 
should also confirm whether the recipient’s name and account number obtained 
from the institution from which it receives the transfer instruction match with 
the recipient information verified by it, and take reasonable measures as set out 
in paragraph 6.24 where such information does not match.  

48   An  intermediary  institution  should  undertake  the  stablecoin  transfer  counterparty  due  diligence 
measures on the ordering institution and, where applicable, another intermediary institution(s), as 
set out in paragraphs 6.28 to 6.39. 

49   For  the  purpose  of  paragraph  6.19,  any  reference  to  “ordering  institution”  and  “intermediary 
institution” in paragraphs 6.12 to 6.14 refers to “intermediary institution” and “another intermediary 
institution” respectively. 

50   A  beneficiary  institution  should  undertake  the  stablecoin  transfer  counterparty  due  diligence 
measures on the ordering institution and, where applicable, the intermediary institution(s), as set 
out in paragraphs 6.28 to 6.39. 

32 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                           
Identification and handling of incoming stablecoin transfers lacking the required 
information  

6.22.  A beneficiary institution or an intermediary institution (hereafter referred to as 
“instructed  institution”)  must  establish  and  maintain  effective  procedures  for 
identifying and handling incoming stablecoin transfers that do not comply with 
the relevant requirements on required originator or recipient information, which 
include: 

(a) 

taking  reasonable  measures  (e.g.  real-time  or  post-event  monitoring)  to 
identify stablecoin transfers that lack the required information; and 

(b)  having  risk-based  policies  and  procedures  for  determining:  (i)  whether 
and when to execute, suspend (i.e. prevent the relevant stablecoins from 
being  made  available  to  the  recipient)  a  stablecoin  transfer  lacking  the 
required information or, where appropriate, return the relevant stablecoins 
to  the  account  of  the  ordering  institution  or  another  intermediary 
institution (hereafter referred to as “instructing institution”) from which 
the  instructed  institution  receives  the  transfer  instruction51;  and  (ii)  the 
appropriate follow-up action. 

6.23. 

In respect of the risk-based policies and procedures referred to in paragraph 6.22, 
if an instructing institution does not submit all of the required information in 
connection  with  the  stablecoins  transferred  to  the  instructed  institution,  the 
instructed institution must as soon as reasonably practicable obtain the missing 
information from the instructing institution.  If the missing information cannot 
be  obtained,  the  instructed  institution  should  either  consider  restricting  or 
terminating its business relationship with the instructing institution in relation 
to  stablecoin  transfers,  or  take  reasonable  measures  to  mitigate  the  risk  of 
ML/TF involved. 

6.24. 

If an instructed institution is aware that any of the information submitted to it 
that  purports  to  be  the  required  information  is  incomplete  or  meaningless,  it 
must as soon as reasonably practicable take reasonable measures to mitigate the 
risk of ML/TF involved having regard to  the procedures set out in paragraph 
6.22(b). 

51   An instructed institution should consider preventing the  stablecoin from being made available to 
the recipient until the missing information is obtained or, where appropriate, returning the stablecoin 
to the account of the instructing institution when there is no suspicion of ML/TF, taking into account 
the results of the stablecoin transfer counterparty due diligence (see paragraphs 6.28 to 6.39) and 
screening  of  the  stablecoin  transactions  and  the  associated  wallet  addresses  in  relation  to  the 
stablecoin  transfers  (see  paragraphs  5.4,  5.5,  5.7  and  5.8).    Please  also  refer  to  risk  mitigating 
measures in paragraph 7.7. 

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
Stablecoin transfers – technological solutions for travel rule compliance 

6.25.  A  licensee  may  adopt  any  technological  solution  to  submit  and/or  obtain  the 
required information for a stablecoin transfer provided that the solution enables 
the licensee to comply with the travel rule as set out in paragraphs 6.5 to 6.24, 
when  it  acts  as  an  ordering  institution,  an  intermediary  institution  or  a 
beneficiary institution. 

6.26.  Where a licensee chooses to use a technological solution to ensure travel rule 
compliance, it remains responsible for discharging its AML/CFT obligations in 
relation to travel rule compliance.  The licensee should conduct due diligence to 
satisfy  itself  that  the  solution  enables  it  to  comply  with  the  travel  rule  in  an 
effective  and  efficient  manner.  In  particular,  the  licensee  should  consider 
whether the solution enables it to: 

(a) 

identify stablecoin transfer counterparties52; and 

(b) 

submit the required information  immediately  and securely  (i.e. whether 
the  solution  can  protect  the  submitted  information  from  unauthorised 
access, disclosure or alteration), and obtain the required information53.  

6.27. 

In addition, a licensee should consider a range of factors as appropriate when 
conducting  due  diligence  on  the  technological  solution  for  travel  rule 
compliance, such as: 

(a) 

the interoperability of the solution with other similar solution(s) adopted 
by the stablecoin transfer counterparties that the licensee may deal with;  

(b)  whether the solution allows the required information for a large volume 
of stablecoin transfers to be submitted immediately and securely to and/or 
obtained  from  multiple  stablecoin  transfer  counterparties  in  a  stable 
manner; 

(c)  whether  the  solution  enables  the  licensee  to  implement  measures  or 
controls for the effective scrutiny of stablecoin transfers to identify and 
report suspicious transactions (as set out in paragraphs 5.4, 5.5, 5.7 and 
5.8), and screening of stablecoin transfers to meet the licensee’s sanctions 
obligations  (i.e.  taking  freezing  actions  and  prohibiting  stablecoin 
transfers with designated persons and entities) (as set out in paragraphs 
7.5 to 7.7); 

52   Stablecoin transfer counterparty means a counterparty institution which may be ordering institution, 

53  

intermediary institution or beneficiary institution involved in a stablecoin transfer.  
In  considering  whether  the  solution  enables  the  licensee  to  obtain  the  required  information,  the 
licensee should take into account whether it can, before conducting stablecoin transfers, identify 
situations where the required information provided by ordering institutions is incomplete or missing, 
which may result from differences in travel rule requirements across different jurisdictions. 

34 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
(d)  whether  the  solution  facilitates  the  licensee  in  conducting  stablecoin 
transfer  counterparty  due  diligence  (see  paragraphs  6.28  to  6.39)  and 
requesting  additional 
transfer 
counterparty as and when necessary; and 

information 

stablecoin 

from 

the 

(e)  whether  the  solution  facilitates  the  licensee  in  keeping  the  required 

information (see paragraph 9.6).  

Stablecoin transfer counterparty due diligence and additional measures 

6.28.  When a licensee conducts a stablecoin transfer referred to in paragraphs 6.5 to 
6.24, the licensee will be exposed to ML/TF risks associated with the stablecoin 
transfer counterparty.  The ML/TF risks associated with the stablecoin transfer 
counterparty may vary depending on the following factors:  

(a) 

(b) 

the  types  of  products  and  services  offered  by  the  stablecoin  transfer 
counterparty; 

the  types  of  customers  to  which  the  stablecoin  transfer  counterparty 
provides services; 

(c)  geographical  exposures  of  the  stablecoin  transfer  counterparty  and  its 

customers; 

(d) 

(e) 

the AML/CFT regime in the jurisdictions in which the stablecoin transfer 
counterparty operates and/or is incorporated; and 

the adequacy and effectiveness of the AML/CFT controls of the stablecoin 
transfer counterparty. 

6.29.  To avoid sending or receiving stablecoins to or from illicit actors or designated 
parties and to ensure compliance with the travel rule, a licensee should conduct 
due diligence on the stablecoin transfer counterparty to identify and assess the 
ML/TF risks associated with the stablecoin transfers to or from the stablecoin 
transfer counterparty and apply appropriate risk-based AML/CFT measures.  

6.30.  A  licensee  should  conduct  due  diligence  measures  on  a  stablecoin  transfer 
counterparty before conducting stablecoin transfers or making the transferred 
stablecoins available to the recipient.  If a licensee conducts stablecoin transfers 
with several stablecoin transfer counterparties located in different jurisdictions 
but belonging to the same group, the licensee, whilst conducting due diligence 
on each of the stablecoin transfer counterparties independently, should also take 
into  account  that  these  counterparties  belong  to  the  same  group  in  order  to 
holistically assess the ML/TF risks posed by the counterparties. 

35 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.31.  A licensee does not need to undertake the stablecoin transfer counterparty due 
diligence  process  for  every  individual  stablecoin  transfer  when  dealing  with 
stablecoin transfer counterparties that it has previously conducted counterparty 
due diligence, unless when there is a suspicion of ML/TF or when the licensee 
is  aware  of  any  heightened  ML/TF  risks  from  its  ongoing  monitoring  of 
stablecoin transfers with  the stablecoin  transfer  counterparties  (see paragraph 
6.36). 

6.32.  Stablecoin transfer counterparty due diligence typically involves the following 

procedures: 

(a)  determining whether the stablecoin transfer is or will be conducted with a 

stablecoin transfer counterparty or an unhosted wallet; 

(b)  where applicable, identifying the stablecoin transfer counterparty (e.g. by 
making  reference  to  lists  of  licensed  or  registered  VASPs  or  FIs  in 
different jurisdictions); and 

(c) 

assessing  whether  the  stablecoin  transfer  counterparty  is  an  eligible 
counterparty  to  deal  with  and  to  send  the  required  information  to  (see 
paragraphs 6.33 to 6.35). 

6.33.  A licensee should apply the following due diligence measures on a stablecoin 
transfer counterparty adopting an RBA, taking into account relevant factors such 
as those set out in paragraph 6.28:  

(a) 

collect sufficient information about the stablecoin transfer counterparty to 
enable  it  to  understand  fully  the  nature  of  the  stablecoin  transfer 
counterparty’s business54; 

(b)  understand  the  nature 55 and  expected  volume  and  value  of  stablecoin 
transfers to be conducted with the stablecoin transfer counterparty; 

(c)  determine  from  publicly  available  information  the  reputation  of  the 
stablecoin transfer counterparty and the quality and effectiveness of the 
AML/CFT  regulation  and  supervision  over  the  stablecoin  transfer 
counterparty by authorities in the jurisdictions in which it operates and/or 
is incorporated; 

54    While a licensee should determine on a risk-sensitive basis the amount of information to collect 
about the  stablecoin transfer  counterparty to enable it to  understand the  nature of the  stablecoin 
transfer counterparty’s business, the licensee should, among other things, endeavour to identify and 
verify  the  identity  of  the  stablecoin  transfer  counterparty  using  documents,  data  or  information 
provided  by  a  reliable  and  independent  source;  and  take  reasonable  measures  to  understand  the 
ownership and control structure of the stablecoin transfer counterparty, with the objective to follow 
the chain of ownerships to its beneficial owners. 

55   For example, the extent to which any of the stablecoin transfers and relevant underlying customers 
(who may be the originator or recipient of a stablecoin transfer) are assessed as high risk by the 
stablecoin transfer counterparty. 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
(d)  assess the AML/CFT controls of the stablecoin transfer counterparty and 
be  satisfied  that  the  AML/CFT  controls  of  the  stablecoin  transfer 
counterparty are adequate and effective; and 

(e)  obtain approval from its senior management. 

6.34.  As part of its stablecoin transfer counterparty due diligence measures, a licensee 
should assess whether the stablecoin transfer counterparty can comply with the 
travel rule, taking into account relevant factors such as:  

(a)  whether  the  stablecoin  transfer  counterparty  is  subject  to  requirements 
similar to the travel rule imposed under section 13A of Schedule 2 to the 
AMLO  and  this  Chapter  in  the  jurisdictions  in  which  the  stablecoin 
transfer counterparty operates and/or is incorporated; and  

(b) 

the  adequacy  and  effectiveness  of  the  AML/CFT  controls  that  the 
stablecoin transfer counterparty has put in place for ensuring compliance 
with the travel rule.  

In  addition,  the  licensee  should  assess  whether  the  stablecoin  transfer 
counterparty can protect the confidentiality and integrity of personal data (e.g. 
the  required  originator  and  recipient  information),  taking  into  account  the 
adequacy  and  robustness  of  the  data  privacy  and  security  controls  of  the 
stablecoin transfer counterparty56.  

6.35.  When assessing the ML/TF risks posed by a stablecoin transfer counterparty, a 
licensee  should  take  into  account  relevant  factors  that  may  indicate  a  higher 
ML/TF risk, for example, a stablecoin transfer counterparty that:  

(a)  operates or is incorporated in a jurisdiction posing a higher ML/TF risk or 

with a weak AML/CFT regime;  

(b) 

is not (or is yet to be) licensed or registered and supervised for AML/CFT 
purposes in the jurisdictions in which it operates and/or is incorporated; 

(c)  does  not  have  in  place  adequate  and  effective  AML/CFT  Systems, 

including measures for ensuring compliance with the travel rule; 

(d)  does not implement  adequate measures or safeguards for protecting the 

confidentiality and integrity of personal data; or 

(e) 

is associated with ML/TF or other illicit activities.  

56   This is to ensure that, among other things, the required information is submitted in a secure manner 

as mentioned in paragraph 6.12. 

37 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
6.36.  A licensee should monitor its stablecoin transfer counterparties on an ongoing 

basis, including:  

(a) 

(b) 

adopting an RBA in monitoring  stablecoin transfers with the stablecoin 
transfer counterparties with a view to detecting any unexpected or unusual 
activities  or  transactions  and  any  changes  in  the  risk  profiles  of  the 
stablecoin  transfer  counterparties,  taking  into  account  the  transaction 
monitoring requirements in paragraphs 5.4, 5.5, 5.7 and 5.8; and  

reviewing  the  information  obtained  by  the  licensee  from  applying  the 
stablecoin transfer counterparty due diligence measures under paragraph 
6.33 on a regular basis and/or upon trigger events (e.g. when the licensee 
is aware of any heightened ML/TF risks from its ongoing monitoring of 
stablecoin  transfers  with  the  stablecoin  transfer  counterparties  or  other 
information  such  as  negative  news  from  credible  media  or  public 
information that a counterparty has been subject to any targeted financial 
sanction,  ML/TF 
investigation  or  regulatory  action)  and,  where 
appropriate,  updating  its  risk  assessment  of  the  stablecoin  transfer 
counterparties.  

Based on the stablecoin transfer counterparty due diligence results, the licensee 
should determine if it should continue to conduct stablecoin transfers with, and 
submit the required information to, a stablecoin transfer counterparty, and the 
extent  of  AML/CFT  measures  that  it  should  apply  in  relation  to  stablecoin 
transfers with the stablecoin transfer counterparty on a risk-sensitive basis.  

6.37.  A licensee  should assess how the ML/TF risks  identified from  the  stablecoin 
transfer counterparty due diligence may affect it, and take reasonable measures 
to  mitigate  and  manage  the  ML/TF  risks  posed  by  a  stablecoin  transfer 
counterparty, which may include:  

(a)  perform enhanced and/or more frequent due diligence reviews;  

(b) 

conduct enhanced monitoring of stablecoin transfers with the stablecoin 
transfer counterparty; and/or 

(c) 

(where appropriate) impose transaction limits.   

38 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.38.  A licensee should also determine on a risk-sensitive basis whether to restrict or 
continue to deal with, or refrain from executing or facilitating any  stablecoin 
transfers  to  or  from,  a  stablecoin  transfer  counterparty  that  presents  higher 
ML/TF risks.  If the licensee cannot mitigate and manage the ML/TF risks posed 
by  a  stablecoin  transfer  counterparty,  it  should  refrain  from  executing  or 
facilitating such stablecoin transfers. 

6.39.  A  licensee  must  not  conduct  stablecoin  transfers  with  a  stablecoin  transfer 

counterparty that is a shell VASP or a shell FI57. 

Stablecoin transfers involving licensee to or from unhosted wallets 

6.40.  When conducting stablecoin transfers to or from unhosted wallets of customer 
stablecoin holders, a licensee should comply with the requirements set out in 
paragraph 6.41 so as to mitigate the associated ML/TF risks. 

6.41.  Before a licensee sends or receives stablecoins to or from an unhosted wallet on 
behalf of its customer (i.e. the originator or the recipient, as the case may be), 
the  licensee  should  obtain  and  record  the  following  originator  and  recipient 
information from the customer58:  

(a) 

in relation to a stablecoin transfer to an unhosted wallet, 
(i) 
(ii) 

the originator’s name;  
the number of the originator’s account maintained with the licensee 
and from which the stablecoins are transferred or, in the absence of 
such  an  account,  a  unique  reference  number  assigned  to  the 
stablecoin transfer by the licensee;  
the  originator’s  address,  the  originator’s  customer  identification 
number or identification document number or, if the originator is an 
individual, the originator’s date and place of birth; 
the recipient’s name; and 
the recipient’s wallet address; 

(iii) 

(iv) 
(v) 

57   For the purpose of this Guideline, a shell FI / VASP is a corporation that: (a) is incorporated in a 
place outside Hong Kong; (b) is authorised to carry on financial services / VA businesses in that 
place; (c) does not have a physical presence in that place; and (d) is not an affiliate of a regulated 
financial group that is subject to effective group-wide supervision.  

58   For the avoidance of doubt, a licensee is not required to obtain the originator information (for a 
stablecoin transfer to an unhosted wallet) or the recipient information (for a stablecoin transfer from 
an  unhosted  wallet)  from  a  customer  that  is  the  originator  or  recipient  respectively  for  every 
individual stablecoin transfer to or from an unhosted wallet (unless doubts arise as to veracity or 
adequacy of the information previously obtained for the purposes of customer identification and 
verification).  For the purposes of paragraph 6.41, a licensee is not required to obtain the information 
in (a)(iii) and (b)(iii) set out therein for a stablecoin transfer to or from an unhosted wallet involving 
stablecoins that amount to less than $8,000. 

39 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
(b) 

in relation to a stablecoin transfer from an unhosted wallet, 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 

the originator’s name;  
the originator’s wallet address; 
the  originator’s  address,  the  originator’s  customer  identification 
number or identification document number or, if the originator is an 
individual, the originator’s date and place of birth;  
the recipient’s name; and 
the number of the recipient’s account maintained with the licensee 
and  to  which  the  stablecoins  are  transferred  or,  in  the  absence  of 
such  an  account,  a  unique  reference  number  assigned  to  the 
stablecoin transfer by the licensee. 

(iv) 
(v) 

6.42.  For the avoidance of doubt, a licensee does not need to observe paragraphs 6.40 
to  6.41  for  peer-to-peer  transfers  of  stablecoins  between  unhosted  wallets  of 
non-customer  stablecoin  holders.    It  should  however  undertake  adequate 
ongoing  monitoring  of  stablecoins  in  circulation  following  the  guidance  in 
paragraphs 5.9 to 5.12.  

40 

 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 

Terrorist  financing,  financial  sanctions  and  proliferation 
financing 

7.1.  A  licensee  should  establish  and  maintain  effective  policies,  procedures  and 
controls to ensure compliance with the relevant regulations and legislation on 
terrorist  financing  (TF),  financial  sanctions  and  proliferation  financing  (PF).  
The legal and regulatory obligations of licensees and those of their staff should 
be well understood and adequate guidance and training should be provided to 
the latter.  

7.2. 

It is particularly vital that a licensee should be able to identify terrorist suspects 
and possible designated parties, and detect prohibited transactions.  To this end, 
a licensee should ensure that it maintains a database of names and particulars of 
terrorists and designated parties, which consolidates the various lists that have 
been made known to the licensee.  Alternatively, a licensee may subscribe to 
such  a  database  maintained  by  a  third-party  service  provider  and  take 
appropriate  measures  (e.g.  conduct  sample  testing  periodically)  to  ensure  the 
completeness and accuracy of the database. 

7.3.  Whether  or  not  a  United  Nations  Security  Council  Resolution  (UNSCR)  or 
sanctions list has been implemented through Hong Kong legislation, there are 
offences under existing legislation relating to money laundering (ML), TF and 
PF that are relevant.  Inclusion of a country, individual, entity or activity in the 
UNSCR or sanctions list may constitute grounds for knowledge or suspicion for 
the  purposes  of  relevant  ML,  TF  and  PF  laws,  thereby  triggering  statutory 
(including reporting) obligations and offences for non-compliance.  The HKMA 
draws to  the attention  of licensees from  time to  time whenever there are  any 
updates  to  UNSCRs  or  sanctions  lists  relating  to  terrorism,  TF  and  PF 
promulgated by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC).  Licensees should 
ensure  that  countries,  individuals  and  entities  included  in  UNSCRs  and 
sanctions lists are included in their database as soon as practicable after they are 
promulgated  by  the  UNSC  regardless  of  whether  the  relevant  sanctions  have 
been implemented by legislation in Hong Kong. 

7.4.  A licensee should include in its database: (i) the lists published in the Gazette or 
on the website of the Commerce and Economic Development Bureau; and (ii) 
the lists that the HKMA draws to the attention of licensees from time to time. 
The database should also be subject to timely update whenever there are changes, 
and should be made easily accessible by relevant staff. 

41 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.  To avoid establishing business relationships or conducting transactions with any 
terrorist  suspects  and  possible  persons  or  entities  including  (i)  designated 
persons or entities; (ii) persons or entities acting on behalf or at the direction of 
the  designated  persons  or  entities  mentioned  in  (i);  or  (iii)  entities  owned  or 
controlled by any persons or entities mentioned in (i) or (ii), a licensee should 
implement an effective screening mechanism59, which should include: 

(a) 

(b) 

screening  its  customers  and  any  beneficial  owners  of  the  customers 
against the current database at issuance and at redemption of stablecoins;  

screening  its  customers  and  any  beneficial  owners  of  the  customers 
against all new and any updated designations to the database as soon as 
practicable; and  

(c) 

screening all relevant parties in a  stablecoin transfer against the current 
database before executing the transfer. 

7.6.  The screening requirements set out in paragraph 7.5(a) and (b) should extend to 
connected parties as defined in paragraph 4.12 and PPTAs of a customer using 
an RBA60. 

7.7.  Where an incoming stablecoin transfer is conducted without the said screening 
or when any of the required originator and recipient information in relation to 
an incoming stablecoin transfer is missing (which renders the licensee unable to 
conduct  screening),  the  licensee  should  take  appropriate  risk  mitigating 
measures, having regard to its business practices61. The risk mitigating measures 
taken by the licensee should be documented. 

7.8.  When possible name matches are identified during screening, a licensee should 
conduct  enhanced  checks  to  determine  whether  the  possible  matches  are 
genuine hits.  In case of any suspicions of TF, PF or sanctions violations, the 
licensee should make a report to the JFIU.  Records of enhanced checking results, 
together  with  all  screening  records,  should  be  documented,  or  recorded 
electronically. 

7.9.  A licensee may rely on its office outside Hong Kong to maintain the database 
or to undertake the screening process.  However, the licensee is reminded that 
the ultimate responsibility for ensuring compliance with the relevant regulations 
and legislation on TF, financial sanctions and PF remains with the licensee. 

59   Screening should be carried out irrespective of the risk profile attributed to the customer. 
60   With reference to paragraphs 5.9 to 5.12, a licensee’s screening mechanism should also extend to 
any  non-customer  stablecoin  holders  whose  identities  have  been  verified  by  the  licensee.    The 
licensee should also satisfy itself that those  FIs,  VASPs and reliable third parties have adequate 
screening mechanism to guard against the risks of TF, PF or sanctions violations.  

61   These  may  include  implementing  controls  to  prevent  the  relevant  stablecoins  from  being  made 
available to the recipient, or putting the receiving wallet on hold, until the screening is completed 
and  confirmed  that  no  concern  is  raised.    Please  also  refer  to  the  risk  mitigating  measures  in 
paragraph 6.22. 

42 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
8. 

Suspicious transaction reports 

8.1. 

8.2. 

It  is  a  statutory  obligation  under  sections  25A(1)  of  the  Drug  Trafficking 
(Recovery of Proceeds) Ordinance Cap.405 (DTROP) and the Organized and 
Serious  Crimes  Ordinance,  Cap.455  (OSCO),  as  well  as  section  12(1)  of  the 
United  Nations  (Anti-Terrorism  Measures)  Ordinance,  Cap.575  (UNATMO), 
that where a person knows or suspects that any property: (a) in whole or in part 
directly  or  indirectly  represents  any  person’s  proceeds  of,  (b)  was  used  in 
connection with, or (c) is intended to be used in connection with drug trafficking 
or an indictable offence; or that any property is  terrorist property, the person 
must as soon as it is reasonable for him or her to do so, file an STR with the 
JFIU.    The  STR  should  be  made  together  with  any  matter  on  which  the 
knowledge  or  suspicion  is  based.    Under  the  DTROP,  the  OSCO  and  the 
UNATMO, failure to report knowledge or suspicion carries a maximum penalty 
of imprisonment for three months and a fine of $50,000.  

It is an offence (“tipping off”) to reveal to any person any information which 
might prejudice an investigation.  If a customer is told that a report has been 
made, this would prejudice the investigation and an offence would be committed.  
The tipping off provision  includes circumstances where a suspicion  has been 
raised internally within a licensee, but has not  yet been reported to the JFIU. 
The  licensee  should  be  aware  that  making  enquiries  with  customers,  if 
conducted properly and in good faith, will not constitute tipping off.  However, 
if  the  licensee  reasonably  believes  that  making  enquiries  will  tip  off  the 
customer, it should not do so.   

8.3.  A licensee should implement appropriate AML/CFT Systems in order to fulfil 
its statutory reporting obligations, and properly manage and mitigate the risks 
associated with any customer or transaction involved in an STR.  The AML/CFT 
Systems should include: 

(a) 

(b) 

appointing an MLRO as a central reference point for reporting suspicious 
transactions and also as the main point of contact with the JFIU and law 
enforcement agencies (see paragraph 3.5);  

implementing  clear  policies  and  procedures  over  internal  reporting, 
reporting  to  the  JFIU,  post-reporting  risk  mitigation  and  prevention  of 
tipping off;  

(c)  providing sufficient guidance to its staff to enable them to detect suspicion 

or to recognise the signs when ML/TF is taking place; and 

(d)  keeping proper records of internal reports and STRs (see paragraph 9.9). 

43 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.4.  A licensee should have measures in place to check, on an ongoing basis, that its 
AML/CFT Systems in relation to suspicious transaction reporting comply with 
relevant  legal  and  regulatory  requirements  and  operate  effectively.    The  type 
and extent of the measures to be taken should be appropriate having regard to 
the risk of ML/TF as well as the nature and size of the licensee’s business.  

8.5.  Once knowledge or suspicion has been formed, a licensee should file an STR 
which should be made as soon as reasonably practicable after the suspicion was 
first identified.  A licensee should ensure that STRs filed to the JFIU are of high 
quality taking into account feedback and guidance provided by the JFIU and the 
HKMA from time to time.  

8.6.  A licensee should conduct an appropriate review of a business relationship upon 
the  filing  of  an  STR  to  the  JFIU,  irrespective  of  any  subsequent  feedback 
provided by the JFIU, and apply appropriate risk mitigating measures (e.g. to 
freeze  or  burn  relevant  stablecoins  in  accordance  with  requests  from  law 
enforcement agencies).  Filing a report with the JFIU and continuing to operate 
the relationship without any further consideration of the risks and the imposition 
of  appropriate  controls  to  mitigate  the  risks  identified  is  not  acceptable.    If 
necessary, the case should be escalated to the licensee’s senior management to 
determine how to  handle the relationship  concerned to  mitigate any potential 
legal or reputational risks posed by the relationship in line with the licensee’s 
business objectives, and its capacity to mitigate the risks identified.  

8.7.  A licensee may receive various requests from law enforcement agencies, e.g. 
search  warrants,  production  orders,  restraint  orders  or  confiscation  orders, 
pursuant to relevant legislation in Hong Kong.  These requests are crucial to aid 
law  enforcement  agencies  to  carry  out  investigations  as  well  as  restrain  and 
confiscate illicit proceeds.  Therefore, a licensee should establish clear policies 
and  procedures  to  handle  these  requests  in  an  effective  and  timely  manner, 
including allocation of sufficient resources and appointing a staff member as the 
main point of contact with law enforcement agencies.  

8.8.  When a licensee receives a requirement (e.g. search warrant or production order) 
or  other  types  of  crime-related  intelligence  requests  (e.g.  notification  letter) 
from a law enforcement agency in relation to a particular customer or business 
relationship,  the  licensee  should,  apart  from  processing  the  requirement  or 
request  promptly,  assess  the  risks  involved  and  the  need  to  conduct  an 
appropriate  review  on  the  customer  or  the  business  relationship  to  determine 
whether there is any suspicion of ML/TF.  The licensee should also be aware 
that the customer subject to the requirement or request can be a victim of crime, 
rather than a suspect.  

44 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 

Record-keeping 

9.1.  Record-keeping  is  an  essential  part  of  the  audit  trail  for  the  detection, 
investigation and confiscation of criminal or terrorist property or funds.  Record-
keeping helps the investigating authorities to establish a financial profile of a 
suspect, trace the criminal or terrorist property or funds, and assists the Court to 
examine all relevant past transactions to assess whether the property or funds 
are the proceeds of or relate to criminal or terrorist offences.  Record-keeping 
also enables a licensee to demonstrate compliance with the requirements set out 
in the AMLO, this Guideline and other relevant guidance promulgated by the 
HKMA from time to time.  

9.2.  A  licensee  should  maintain  CDD  information,  transaction  records  and  other 
records  that  are  necessary  and  sufficient  to  meet  the  statutory  and  regulatory 
requirements.  The licensee should ensure that: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  audit  trail  for  funds  moving  through  the  licensee  that  relate  to  any 
customer or any stablecoin transaction is clear and complete;  

all  CDD  information  and  stablecoin  transaction  records  can  be  made 
available  swiftly  to  the  HKMA,  other  authorities  and  auditors  upon 
appropriate authority; and 

it can demonstrate compliance with section 20 and section 21 of Schedule 
2 to the AMLO and any relevant requirements specified in other sections 
of this Guideline and other guidelines issued by the HKMA. 

9.3.  A licensee should maintain the original or a copy of the documents, and a record 
of the data and information, obtained in connection with each transaction the 
licensee carries out, both domestic and international, which should be sufficient 
to permit reconstruction of individual transactions so as to provide, if necessary, 
evidence for prosecution of criminal activity.  All these documents and records 
should  be  kept  for  a  period  of  at  least  five  years  after  the  completion  of  a 
transaction,  regardless  of  whether  the  business  relationship  ends  during  the 
period.  

45 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.4.  A licensee should keep:  

(a) 

the  original  or  a  copy  of  the  documents,  and  a  record  of  the  data  and 
information, obtained in the course of identifying and, where applicable, 
verifying  the  identity  of  the  customer  and/or  beneficial  owner  of  the 
customer and/or beneficiary and/or persons who purport to act on behalf 
of the customer and/or other connected parties to the customer; 

(b)  other documents and records obtained throughout the CDD and ongoing 

monitoring process, including SDD and EDD;  

(c)  where applicable, the original or a copy of the documents, and a record of 
the  data  and  information,  on  the  purpose  and  intended  nature  of  the 
business relationship; 

(d) 

(e) 

the  original  or  a  copy  of  the  records  and  documents  relating  to  the 
customer’s account and business correspondence62 with the customer and 
any beneficial owner of the customer (which at a minimum should include 
business  correspondence  material  to  CDD  measures  or  significant 
changes to the operation of the account); and  

the  results  of  any  analysis  undertaken  (e.g.  enquiries  to  establish  the 
background  and  purposes  of  transactions  that  are  complex,  unusually 
large in amount or of unusual pattern, and have no apparent economic or 
lawful purpose).  

9.5.  All  documents  and  records  mentioned  in  paragraph  9.4  should  be  kept 
throughout the continuance of the business relationship with the customer and 
for  a  period  of  at  least  five  years  after  the  end  of  the  business  relationship.  
Similarly, for occasional transactions, a licensee should keep all documents and 
records mentioned in paragraph 9.4 for a period of at least five years after the 
date on which the occasional transaction is completed.  

9.6.  A licensee should keep the required originator and recipient information set out 
in paragraphs 6.5 and 6.6 obtained or received by the licensee in relation to a 
stablecoin  transfer  referred  to  in  paragraphs  6.5  to  6.24,  and/or  the  required 
originator and recipient information set out in paragraph 6.41 obtained by the 
licensee  in  relation  to  a  stablecoin  transfer  to  or  from  an  unhosted  wallet  of 
customer stablecoin holders referred to in paragraphs 6.40 to 6.41, for a period 
of at least five years after the completion of the transfer, regardless of whether 
the business relationship ends during the period.  

62   A licensee is not expected to keep each and every correspondence, such as a series of emails with 
the customer; the expectation is that sufficient correspondence is kept to demonstrate compliance 
with the AMLO. 

46 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
9.7. 

If the record consists of a document, either the original of the document should 
be retained or a copy of the document should be kept on microfilm or in the 
database of a computer.  If the record consists of data or information, such record 
should be kept either on microfilm or in the database of a computer.  Irrespective 
of where CDD and transaction records are held, a licensee is required to comply 
with all legal and regulatory requirements in Hong Kong, especially Part 3 of 
Schedule 2 to the AMLO. 

9.8.  The HKMA may, by notice in writing to a licensee, require it to keep the records 
relating  to  a  specified  transaction  or  customer  for  a  period  specified  by  the 
HKMA that is longer than those referred to in paragraphs 9.3, 9.5 and 9.6, where 
the  records  are  relevant  to  an  ongoing  criminal  investigation  or  other 
investigation carried out by the HKMA, or to any other purposes as specified in 
the notice.  

Record keeping in relation to STRs 

9.9.  A licensee should establish and maintain a record of all ML/TF reports made to 
the MLRO.  The record should include details of the date the report was made, 
the staff members subsequently handling the report, the results of the assessment, 
whether the internal report resulted in an STR to the JFIU, and information to 
allow the papers relevant to the report to be located.  A licensee should establish 
and maintain a record of all STRs made to the JFIU.  The record should include 
details of the date of the STR, the person who made the STR, and information 
to  allow  the  papers  relevant  to  the  STR  to  be  located.    This  register  may  be 
combined with the register of internal reports, if considered appropriate. 

Records kept by intermediaries 

9.10.  Where  customer  identification  and  verification  documents  are  held  by  an 
intermediary on which a licensee relies to carry out CDD measures, the licensee 
remains responsible for compliance with all record-keeping requirements.  The 
licensee should ensure that the intermediary being relied on has systems in place 
to comply with all the record-keeping requirements under the AMLO and this 
Guideline  (including  the  requirements  of  paragraphs  9.4  to  9.7),  and  that 
documents  and  records  will  be  provided  by  the  intermediary  as  soon  as 
reasonably  practicable  after  the  intermediary  receives  a  request  from  the 
licensee.  

9.11.  For the avoidance of doubt, a licensee that relies on an intermediary to carry out 
a  CDD  measure  should  immediately  obtain  the  data  or  information  that  the 
intermediary has obtained in the course of carrying out that measure.  

9.12.  A  licensee  should  ensure  that  an  intermediary  will  pass  the  documents  and 
records  to  the  licensee,  upon  termination  of  the  services  provided  by  the 
intermediary.  

47 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
