STABLECOINS ORDINANCE 

Guideline on 

Supervision of Licensed Stablecoin Issuers 

August 2025 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

1. 

2. 

Introduction ..................................................................................................... 4 

Reserve assets management ............................................................................ 5 

2.1.  Overview ..................................................................................................... 5 

2.2.  Full backing ................................................................................................. 5 

2.3.  Scope and composition of reserve assets ..................................................... 6 

2.4.  Referenced currency .................................................................................... 7 

2.5.  Segregation and safekeeping ....................................................................... 7 

2.6.  Non-interest bearing .................................................................................... 8 

2.7.  Disclosure and reporting .............................................................................. 9 

3. 

Issuance, redemption and distribution ........................................................... 11 

3.1.  Overview ................................................................................................... 11 

3.2. 

Issuance requirements ................................................................................ 11 

3.3.  Redemption requirements .......................................................................... 11 

3.4.  Distribution requirements .......................................................................... 12 

3.5.  Customer on-boarding and management ................................................... 13 

3.6.  Disclosure and reporting ............................................................................ 14 

4. 

Business activities ......................................................................................... 16 

4.1.  Restrictions on business activities ............................................................. 16 

4.2. 

Issuance of more than one type of specified stablecoins ........................... 16 

4.3.  Purpose and soundness of issue ................................................................. 17 

5. 

Financial resources ........................................................................................ 18 

5.1.  Minimum paid-up share capital ................................................................. 18 

5.2.  Liquid assets .............................................................................................. 18 

6. 

Risk management .......................................................................................... 20 

6.1.  Overview ................................................................................................... 20 

6.2.  Risk governance ........................................................................................ 20 

6.3.  Risk management framework and internal control system ....................... 21 

6.4.  Credit, liquidity and market risk management .......................................... 22 

6.5.  Technology risk management .................................................................... 24 

6.6.  Operational risk management .................................................................... 39 

6.7.  Reputation risk management ..................................................................... 42 

6.8. 

Incident management, business continuity and exit .................................. 42 

7. 

Corporate governance ................................................................................... 48 

2 

 
 
 
7.1.  Corporate governance ................................................................................ 48 

7.2.  Fitness and propriety ................................................................................. 51 

8. 

Business practices and conduct ..................................................................... 56 

8.1. 

Information and accounting systems ......................................................... 56 

8.2.  Disclosure and reporting ............................................................................ 56 

8.3.  Personal data protection ............................................................................. 57 

8.4.  Complaints handling .................................................................................. 57 

9. 

Glossary ......................................................................................................... 59 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
1. 

Introduction 

1.1. 

1.2. 

This Guideline on Supervision of Licensed Stablecoin Issuers is issued pursuant 
to section 171(4) of the Stablecoins Ordinance (“SO”) to set out guidance on 
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (“HKMA”)’s expectations with regard to 
the minimum criteria in Schedule 2 to the SO which a licensee is required to 
fulfil on an ongoing basis pursuant to section 24 of the SO. 

This  Guideline  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  SO  as  well  as  other 
guidance issued by the HKMA from time to time.  Unless otherwise defined in 
the Glossary of this Guideline, terms used in this Guideline shall have the same 
meaning as those defined in the SO.  Unless otherwise specified, terms in this 
Guideline in the singular include the plural and terms in this Guideline in the 
plural include the singular.  In this Guideline, use of the word “must” indicates 
a  statutory  requirement  whereas  “should”  indicates  the  HKMA’s  regulatory 
expectations. 

1.3. 

The relevance and usefulness of this Guideline will be kept under review and it 
may be necessary to issue amendments from time to time. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 

Reserve assets management 

2.1.  Overview 

2.1.1.  A licensee should put in place a set of policies and procedures for managing its 
reserve assets.  The policies and procedures should set out, among other things, 
(i)  a  governance  arrangement  with  clear  reporting  lines  and  sufficient 
segregation of duties, (ii) detailed measures adopted for fulfilling requirements 
in  relation  to  reserve  assets  management,  and  (iii)  detailed  procedures  for 
carrying out operations with stringent authorisation control. 

2.2. 

Full backing 

2.2.1.  Section 5(2) of Schedule 2 to the SO stipulates that a licensee must implement 
measures to ensure that in relation to each type of specified stablecoins it issues, 
the  market  value  of  the  specified  reserve  assets  pool  backing  the  type  of 
specified  stablecoins  is  at  all  times  at  least  equal  to  the  par  value  of  the 
outstanding  specified  stablecoins  of  the  type  in  circulation.    In  practice,  the 
licensee should take into account the risk profile of the reserve assets, and ensure 
that there is appropriate over-collateralisation to provide adequate buffer above 
the full backing level (see paragraphs 2.4.1 and 6.4.5).  The licensee should also 
ensure that the custodial arrangement in respect of the reserve assets will not 
compromise its full backing (e.g. ensuring that account-level fees would not be 
deducted  from  accounts  in  which  reserve  assets  are  held).    Furthermore,  the 
licensee  should  ensure  that  measures  are  implemented  for  monitoring  and 
conducting regular reconciliation between the market value of the reserve assets 
and the par value of the outstanding specified stablecoins in circulation to verify 
that the full backing requirement is fulfilled. 

2.2.2.  A licensee should ensure that a consistent and prudent approach is adopted in 
calculating the market value of reserve assets.  The calculation method and the 
sources of the market prices should be reasonable, reliable, and able to reflect 
prevailing market prices, and the valuation should be conducted at the bid price 
which is the more prudent price for the sale of a financial asset where applicable.  
The licensee should also  ensure that a consistent  and  transparent  approach is 
taken  in  calculating  the  par  value  of  the  outstanding  specified  stablecoins  in 
circulation,  and  that  there  is  no  mismatch  between  the  approaches  for 
calculating  market  value  of  reserve  assets  and  par  value  of  the  outstanding 
specified stablecoins in circulation. 

2.2.3.  For the avoidance of doubt, a licensee should ensure that specified stablecoins 
that are temporarily restricted from being accessed, transferred and redeemed 
by specified stablecoin holders (e.g. specified stablecoins that are frozen due to 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
enforcement actions or court orders but could potentially be unfrozen after court 
order or investigation) are fully backed, so that the licensee would be able to 
meet  redemption  requirements  in  accordance  with  paragraph  3  once  the 
restrictions are no longer in force. 

2.3. 

Scope and composition of reserve assets 

2.3.1.  Section 5(5) of Schedule 2 to the SO stipulates that reserve assets must be of 
high quality and high liquidity with minimal investment risks.  Reserve assets 
should be held in the form of: 

(i) 

Cash; 

(ii) 

Bank deposits with a term of no longer than three (3) months; 

(iii)  Marketable debt securities that: 

a.  Are  issued  or  guaranteed  by  a  government,  central  bank,  public 
sector  entity,  qualified  international  organisation  or  multilateral 
development bank; 

b.  Have residual maturity of no longer than one (1) year; 

c.  (I) Qualify, in the calculation of credit risk under the standardized 
(credit risk) approach, for a 0% risk weight pursuant to sections 55 
to  58  of  the  Banking  (Capital)  Rules  (Cap.  155L);  or  (I)  are 
denominated  in  the  domestic  currency  of  the  issuer  that  is  a 
government or central bank; 

d.  Are of high liquidity; and 

e.  Are not an obligation of a financial institution or an associated entity 
of a financial institution, that is not a public sector entity bank; 

(iv)  Cash  receivable  from  overnight  reverse  repurchase  agreements  with 
minimal counterparty risk, collateralised by assets set out in (iii); 

(v) 

Investment funds that invest in assets set out in (i), (ii), (iii) and/or (iv), 
where  such  investment  funds  should  be  set  up  dedicated  for  the  sole 
purpose of managing the reserve assets of a licensee; and/or 

(vi)  Other types of assets which are acceptable to the HKMA. 

Collectively, the “eligible assets”. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  the  reserve  assets  may  consist  of  the  tokenised 
representations of the eligible assets.  To this end, a licensee should demonstrate 
to the satisfaction of the HKMA how the concerned tokenised representations 
of the eligible assets fulfil the requirement of high quality, high liquidity and 
minimal investment risks. 

2.4.  Referenced currency 

2.4.1.  Section 5(3) of Schedule 2 to the SO stipulates that except with the prior written 
approval of the Monetary Authority, the specified reserve assets pool for each 
type  of  specified  stablecoins  issued  by  a  licensee  must  be  held  in  the  same 
reference asset as that referenced by the type of specified stablecoins.  Reserve 
assets  should  be  denominated  in  the  respective  referenced  currency  of  the 
specified  stablecoins  issued  by  the  licensee,  or  if  there  is  more  than  one 
referenced currency, denominated in the referenced currencies in the same ratio 
as that to which the specified stablecoins are referenced, with flexibility allowed 
on  a  case-by-case  basis,  subject  to  prior  written  approval  of  the  Monetary 
Authority.    When  determining  whether  approval  should  be  given  to  allow 
flexibility in respect of currency mismatch, the HKMA would consider whether 
there is a legitimate reason for having a currency mismatch, whether the licensee 
is  able  to  demonstrate  the  needs  and  rationale  for  doing  so,  and  whether  the 
proposed arrangements (including for example the composition and proportion 
of reserve assets, as well as corresponding risk mitigating measures such as over 
over-collateralisation) are reasonable and can effectively manage the relevant 
risks so as to avoid transferring such risks to the specified stablecoin holders or 
negatively impacting its operations. 

2.5. 

Segregation and safekeeping 

2.5.1.  Sections 5(1) and 5(4) of Schedule 2 to the SO set out the minimum criteria with 
regard to the segregation and safekeeping of reserve assets.   A licensee must 
ensure that the reserve assets for each type of specified stablecoins it issues are 
(i) segregated from any other pools of reserve assets it maintains, (ii) adequately 
protected against claims by its other creditors in all circumstances, and (iii) kept 
separate  from other assets  of the licensee, including  any other funds paid to, 
maintained or received by the licensee. 

2.5.2.  Effective trust arrangements should be put in place to ensure that the reserve 
assets are segregated from  the assets  of  a  licensee,  held  for and on behalf of 
specified  stablecoin  holders,  and  are  available  to  satisfy  specified  stablecoin 
holders’  valid  redemption  requests  at  par  value  (see  paragraph  3.3).    In  this 
regard, the appointment of an independent trustee or a declaration of trust over 
the reserve assets would be considered as an acceptable trust arrangement.  Prior 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to  any  implementation  of  a  trust  arrangement,  the  licensee  should  obtain  an 
independent  legal  opinion  demonstrating  the  effectiveness  of  the  trust 
arrangement,  and  submit  the  same  to  the  HKMA.    If  there  are  any  material 
changes  to  a  trust  arrangement,  the  licensee  should  submit  an  updated 
independent legal opinion to the HKMA accordingly. 

2.5.3.  Any income or loss generated from the management of reserve assets should be 
attributed to a licensee (see paragraph 2.6).  The trust arrangement under which 
the reserve assets are held should include an arrangement to facilitate the regular 
transfer of excess assets (i.e. the portion of assets that exceed the internal target 
set out by the licensee) from the account of reserve assets to the licensee’s own 
account.  The arrangement should consist of a triggering mechanism, as well as 
detailed procedures to ensure that the transfer involves only the excess assets.  
In addition, the prescribed trust arrangement should  also cater for a potential 
triggering of the licensee’s business exit plan (see paragraph 6.8.17). 

2.5.4.  Section 5(8) of Schedule 2 to the SO sets out the minimum criteria in relation 
to  the  engagement  of  third  party  entities  with  regard  to  reserve  assets 
management.    To  this  end,  qualified  custodians  should  be  appointed  for  the 
safekeeping of reserve assets.  A custodian should be a licensed bank, or other 
asset custodian under an  arrangement  which is  acceptable to the HKMA.   In 
case investment managers are being engaged for the purpose of management of 
reserve assets, a licensee should also ensure that the investment managers are 
qualified for such role.  When conducting risk assessments and due diligence on 
a  prospective  custodian  and/or  investment  manager  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set out in paragraph 6.6 on third party risk management, factors 
including  but  not  limited  to  its  size,  capabilities,  expertise,  track  record, 
reputation,  as  well  as  presence  in  Hong  Kong  should  be  taken  into  account.  
Notwithstanding the appointment of custodians and/or investment managers (if 
any),  the  licensee  should  be  primarily  responsible  and  accountable  for  the 
proper management and safekeeping of reserve assets. 

2.6.  Non-interest bearing 

2.6.1.  Section 15 of Schedule 2 to the SO stipulates that a licensee must not pay, or 
permit to be paid, any interest in relation to the specified stablecoins it issues.  
A  licensee  should  not  pay  interest  or  interest-like  incentive  in  any  form  to 
specified stablecoin holders, save that a licensee may offer marketing incentives 
that do not amount to payment of interest.  To this end, interest means any profit, 
income  or  other  return  represented  to  arise  or  to  be  likely  to  arise  from  the 
holding of the specified stablecoins on the basis of (i) the length of the period 
during which the holder holds the specified stablecoins, (ii) the par value of the 
specified stablecoins, or (iii) the market value of the specified stablecoins.  In 
addition,  the licensee should  ensure that  any income or loss  arising  from the 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
management of reserve assets, including but not limited to interest payments or 
capital gains or losses, is attributed to the licensee. 

2.7.  Disclosure and reporting 

2.7.1.  Section 5(7) of Schedule 2 to the SO stipulates that a licensee must disclose to 
the  public,  among  other  things,  its  reserve  assets  management  policy,  the 
composition  and  market  value  of  its  reserve  assets  as  well  as  the  results  of 
regular independent attestation and audit of its reserve assets.  Paragraph (b) of 
section 5(6) of Schedule 2 to the SO sets out the minimum criteria with regard 
to the systems of control on independent attestation and audit. 

2.7.2.  To this end, on a daily basis, a licensee should  prepare statements on the par 
value  of  the  outstanding  specified  stablecoins  in  circulation,  as  well  as  the 
market value and composition of its reserve assets, and such statements should 
be ready for submission to the HKMA as and when requested.  Unless otherwise 
agreed  by the HKMA, the licensee should report  to  the HKMA  on a weekly 
basis  and  update  at  a  reasonably  prominent  location  on  its  website  the 
aforementioned information. 

2.7.3.  A licensee should engage a qualified and independent external auditor that is 
acceptable to the HKMA to perform attestation on a regular basis at a frequency 
that is acceptable to the HKMA, on: (i) the market value and composition of its 
reserve  assets,  (ii)  the  par  value  of  the  outstanding  specified  stablecoins  in 
circulation, and (iii) whether its reserve assets are adequate to fully back the par 
value  of  the  outstanding  specified  stablecoins  in  circulation  as  of  the  last 
business day of the period covered by the attestation report, and as of at least 
one randomly selected business day during such period.  The licensee should 
submit the attestation report to the HKMA within one month following the last 
business day of the period covered by the attestation report, and disclose each 
attestation report to the public at a reasonably prominent location on its website. 

2.7.4.  A licensee’s annual financial audit should cover its reserve assets (see paragraph 
8.2.5).   Separately,  the licensee should review its reserve  assets management 
policies  and  procedures  regularly  and  at  least  on  a  quarterly  basis.    Any 
shortcomings identified during such review should be promptly addressed and 
reflected in the updated policies and procedures.  The policies and procedures, 
as well as any material changes, should be approved by the board of directors 
(“Board”).  The licensee should also conduct regular audits to assess whether 
its reserve assets are managed in compliance with the policies and procedures, 
as well as applicable regulatory requirements.  The licensee should report the 
audit  outcomes,  including  any  material  findings,  to  the  HKMA  in  a  timely 
manner  and  promptly  provide  the  audit  report  and  relevant  supporting 
documents to the HKMA upon request. 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.7.5.  If there is a breach of statutory or regulatory requirements in relation to reserve 
assets management, material non-compliance with reserve assets management 
policies (including those arising from third party arrangements), and unresolved 
discrepancies identified in any reconciliation exercise, such incidents should be 
reported to the HKMA immediately. 

10 

 
 
 
 
3. 

Issuance, redemption and distribution 

3.1.  Overview 

3.1.1.  A  licensee  should  put  in  place  a  set  of  policies  and  procedures  for  issuance, 
redemption and distribution of the specified stablecoins it issues.  The policies 
and  procedures  should  set  out,  among  other  things,  (i)  a  governance 
arrangement with clear reporting lines and sufficient segregation of duties, (ii) 
detailed  measures  adopted  for  fulfilling  requirements  in  relation  to  issuance, 
redemption  and  distribution,  and  (iii)  as  part  of  its  overall  internal  control 
system,  detailed  procedures  for  carrying  out  operations  with  stringent 
authorisation control. 

3.2. 

Issuance requirements 

3.2.1.  Section  11  of  Schedule  2  to  the  SO  stipulates  that  the  issue  of  a  specified 
stablecoin by a licensee must be prudent and sound, having regard to the purpose, 
business  model  and  operational  arrangement  of  the  issue.    To  this  end,  the 
licensee  should  establish  and  maintain  an  effective  issuance  mechanism  for 
specified stablecoins it issues.  In practice, the licensee should issue specified 
stablecoins only to its customers (see paragraph 3.5), and the issuance should 
be  carried  out  as  soon  as  practicable  after  receiving  the  funds  and  a  valid 
issuance request.   The funds received from customers as part of the issuance 
process  should  be  denominated  in  the  respective  referenced  currency  of  the 
specified  stablecoins  issued  by  the  licensee,  or  if  there  is  more  than  one 
referenced currency, denominated in the referenced currencies in the same ratio 
as  that  to  which  the  specified  stablecoins  are  referenced.    Any  minting  of 
specified stablecoins during the process should be matched by a corresponding 
increase in the relevant reserve assets pool. 

3.3.  Redemption requirements 

3.3.1.  Section 6 of Schedule 2 to the SO sets out the minimum criteria with regard to 
the  redemption  of  specified  stablecoins.    A  licensee  must  provide  specified 
stablecoin holders with a right to redeem the specified stablecoins at par value.  
The licensee must also, in respect of each type of specified stablecoins issued 
by  it,  provide  each  specified  stablecoin  holder  with  (i)  a  right  to  direct  the 
disposal of the specified reserve assets pool for the purpose of redeeming all 
outstanding specified stablecoins of that type on a pro rata basis, as well as (ii) 
a right to claim against the licensee for any shortfall if the proceeds from the 
disposal  of  the  specified  reserve  assets  pool  is  insufficient  to  redeem  all  the 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
outstanding specified stablecoins of that type in full.  The rights mentioned in 
items (i) and (ii) must be exercisable in the event of the licensee’s insolvency. 

3.3.2.  A licensee should obtain an independent legal opinion to demonstrate that it has 
provided specified stablecoin holders with the rights set out in paragraph 3.3.1.  
The  licensee  should  submit  the  independent  legal  opinion  to  the  HKMA.    If 
there are any material changes to such rights of specified stablecoin holders, the 
licensee  should  submit  an  updated  independent  legal  opinion  to  the  HKMA 
accordingly. 

3.3.3.  A licensee should establish and maintain an effective redemption mechanism 
for  the  specified  stablecoins  it  issues.    Valid  redemption  requests  made  by  a 
specified stablecoin holder must be honoured by the licensee, without charging 
an  unreasonable  fee  in  connection  with  redemption  or  attaching  any  unduly 
burdensome  condition,  as  soon  as  practicable,  except  with  the  prior  written 
consent  of  the  Monetary  Authority.    Unless  otherwise  approved,  valid 
redemption requests should be processed within one (1) business day after the 
day on which it is received by the licensee. 

3.3.4.  In evaluating the reasonableness of the fees charged, factors including but not 
limited to the proportionality of fees to the operational costs of processing the 
redemption requests by a licensee, as well as prevailing industry practices will 
be taken into account.  In assessing whether a condition is unduly burdensome, 
factors taken into account may include but are not limited to whether fulfilment 
of the condition is reasonably practicable, whether the condition is imposed due 
to  certain  legal  or  regulatory  obligations  of  the  licensee,  and  whether  the 
condition would cause undue hardship to specified stablecoin holders. 

3.3.5.  To honour  a valid redemption  request,  a licensee should transfer  funds  in  an 
amount  equal  to  the  par  value  of  the  specified  stablecoins  received  from  the 
specified stablecoin holder, after deducting any fees as mentioned in paragraph 
3.3.3, to the specified stablecoin holder.  The funds should be denominated in 
the  respective  referenced  currency  of  the  specified  stablecoins  issued  by  the 
licensee, or if there is more than one referenced currency, denominated in the 
referenced currencies in the same ratio as that to which the specified stablecoins 
are  referenced.    The  licensee  should  ensure  that  a  draw-down  of  its  reserve 
assets  for  honouring  a  redemption  request  is  matched  by  a  corresponding 
decrease in the par value of the outstanding specified stablecoins in circulation. 

3.4.  Distribution requirements 

3.4.1.  Section  11  of  Schedule  2  to  the  SO  stipulates  that  the  issue  of  a  specified 
stablecoin by a licensee must be prudent and sound, having regard to the purpose, 
business model and operational arrangement of the issue.  While the business 
model and operational arrangements may differ among licensees, if a licensee 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
enters  into  arrangements  with  third  party  entities  for  the  distribution  of  the 
specified stablecoins it issues, it should ensure that such arrangements will not 
adversely affect the prudence and soundness of its issuances. 

3.4.2.  In practice, a licensee should consider the laws and regulations of the relevant 
jurisdictions, as well as the licensing status of the third party entities involved 
to address the legal and compliance risks.  In particular, if the third party entities 
offer specified stablecoins in Hong Kong, the licensee should ensure that the 
third party  entities  are permitted offerors.   In addition,  when conducting risk 
assessments and due diligence on the third party entities in accordance with the 
requirements  set  out  in  paragraph  6.6  on  third  party  risk  management,  the 
licensee should consider factors including but not limited to the size, capabilities, 
expertise, track record and reputation of the third party entities, as well as the 
adequacy  of  the  governance,  conduct,  risk  management,  and  internal  control 
measures  implemented  by  the  third  party  entities.    Furthermore,  the  licensee 
should also ensure that the arrangements with third party entities comply with 
the relevant laws and regulations in the concerned jurisdictions.  Specifically, 
the  arrangements  should  not  involve  distribution  of  the  specified  stablecoins 
issued by the licensee in jurisdictions where such activity is unlawful. 

3.4.3.  For  third  party  entities  that  provide  liquidity  in  the  secondary  market  for 
specified stablecoins issued by a licensee, the licensee should consider the need 
to  engage  such  parties,  and  if  so,  the  extent  and  scope  of  the  arrangements, 
taking  into  account  its  business  model  and  operational  arrangement.    The 
licensee  should  ensure  that  any  of  such  arrangements  have  the  goal  of 
maintaining relatively stable value for the specified stablecoins in the secondary 
markets,  and  that  any  potential  and/or  actual  conflicts  of  interest  have  been 
identified as well as properly addressed and mitigated. 

3.5.  Customer on-boarding and management 

3.5.1.  A licensee should establish adequate and effective policies and procedures for 
customer  on-boarding  in  respect  of  issuance  and  redemption  of  specified 
stablecoins.  If applicable, the licensee should carry out customer due diligence 
measures on specified stablecoin holders and/or potential specified stablecoin 
holders  before  issuance  and  redemption.    For  details,  please  refer  to  the 
Guideline on Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Financing of Terrorism (For 
Licensed Stablecoin Issuers). 

3.5.2.  A  licensee  should  comply  with  the  relevant  laws  and  regulations  in  the 
jurisdictions where it offers specified stablecoins, and a comprehensive set of 
policies  and  procedures  should  be  put  in  place  to  manage  this  aspect  by, 
including but not limited to, (i) ensuring that it does not issue or offer specified 
stablecoins in jurisdictions where such activity is unlawful (e.g. by verification 
of identity documents, geolocation lookup via Internet Protocol (“IP”) addresses 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or  global  positioning  system,  blocking  access,  etc.),  (ii)  ensuring  that  its 
operations and marketing activities are compliant with the applicable laws and 
regulations  of  the  respective  jurisdictions,  and  (iii)  actively  monitoring  any 
policy  changes  and  updates  with  respect  to  specified  stablecoins  in  order  to 
adjust its relevant operations. 

3.5.3.  A licensee should implement controls to mitigate the risk of location spoofing 
(e.g. via use of virtual private networks (“VPN”)) during remote customer on-
boarding as well as during its course of business.  For example, the licensee may 
detect  VPN  usage  by  examining  the  network  protocols,  checking  device 
configurations (e.g. timestamp, presence of VPN profiles), and/or verifying IP 
addresses against the server addresses of commercial VPN providers. 

3.6.  Disclosure and reporting 

3.6.1.  As set out in section 6(5) of Schedule 2 to the SO, a licensee must disclose to 
the  public  its  redemption  mechanism  and  procedures,  redemption  rights, 
timeframe, as well as the applicable conditions and fees involved, if any.  Such 
information should be clearly set out in the white paper (see paragraph 8.2.3) as 
well the terms and conditions applicable to specified stablecoin holders.  For the 
avoidance  of  doubt,  the  terms  and  conditions  should  apply  to  all  specified 
stablecoin  holders,  regardless  of  whether  a  customer  relationship  has  been 
established with the licensee.  In addition, the terms and conditions should also 
address  (i)  the  arrangement  for  issuance  and  redemption  during  exceptional 
circumstances,  such  as  hard  forks,  and  (ii)  the  transfer  mechanism  of  the 
specified  stablecoins  (e.g.  the  point  at  which  the  specified  stablecoins  are 
considered being transferred as a specified stablecoin holder executes a transfer), 
having regard to the operations of the underlying distributed ledgers.  The terms 
and conditions should be published at a reasonably prominent location on the 
licensee’s website. 

3.6.2.  A licensee should review its issuance, redemption and distribution policies and 
procedures  regularly  and  at  least  on  an  annual  basis.    Any  shortcomings 
identified during such review should be promptly addressed and reflected in the 
updated policies and procedures.  The policies and procedures, as well as any 
material changes, should be approved by the Board.  The licensee should also 
conduct regular audits to assess whether its operations are in compliance with 
the policies and procedures, as well as the applicable regulatory requirements.  
The licensee should report the audit outcomes, including any material findings, 
to  the HKMA in  a timely  manner  and  promptly  provide the  audit report  and 
relevant supporting documents to the HKMA upon request. 

3.6.3.  If  there  is  a  breach  of  any  statutory  or  regulatory  requirements  in  relation  to 
issuance,  redemption  and  distribution,  and  material  non-compliance  with 
issuance,  redemption  and  distribution  policies  (including  those  arising  from 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
third  party  arrangements),  such  incidents  should  be  reported  to  the  HKMA 
immediately. 

15 

 
 
 
4. 

Business activities 

4.1.  Restrictions on business activities 

4.1.1.  Section 12 of Schedule 2 to the SO sets out the minimum criteria with regard to 
the  conduct  of  business  activities  of  a  licensee.    A  licensee  must  obtain  the 
Monetary Authority’s  consent before it carries on any business activity other 
than a licensed stablecoin activity (“Other Business Activities”).  The licensee 
should  establish  clear  governance  arrangements  for  such  Other  Business 
Activities,  conduct  risk  assessments  to  identify  all  relevant  risks,  as  well  as 
implement controls to properly manage and mitigate the identified risks.  The 
licensee  should  demonstrate,  and  have  adequate  and  appropriate  systems  of 
control to  ensure,  that the Other Business  Activities  will not  pose  significant 
risks to its licensed stablecoin activities and that potential or actual conflicts of 
interest from any Other Business Activities are properly managed and mitigated.  
The  licensee  must  also  ensure  that  sufficient  resources  are  dedicated  to  its 
licensed stablecoin activities. 

4.1.2.  A  licensee  should  also  assess  whether  the  Other  Business  Activities  would 
constitute  other  regulated  activities,  and  whether  it  is  able  to  fulfil  the 
requirements of all applicable regulatory regimes. 

4.1.3.  The requirements in paragraphs 4.1.1 and 4.1.2 do not apply to a licensee that 
is an authorized institution.  A licensee that is an authorized institution should 
comply with requirements under the Banking Ordinance (Cap. 155) and relevant 
guidance. 

4.2. 

Issuance of more than one type of specified stablecoins 

4.2.1.  Section  11  of  Schedule  2  to  the  SO  stipulates  that  the  issue  of  specified 
stablecoins must be prudent and sound, having regard to the purpose, business 
model and operational arrangement of the issue.  To this end, a licensee may 
issue more than one type of specified stablecoins under its licence.  However, 
the  licensee  should discuss  with  the HKMA before issuance of  an additional 
type  of  specified  stablecoins,  e.g.  a  specified  stablecoin  that  references  other 
currencies. 

4.2.2.  A licensee that wishes to issue an additional type of specified stablecoins should 
demonstrate to  the HKMA  that it has  adequate capabilities and resources  for 
managing the issuance of different types of specified stablecoins, and that the 
issuance of an additional type of specified stablecoins will not adversely impact 
its existing issuance activities. 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3. 

Purpose and soundness of issue 

4.3.1.  Section  11  of  Schedule  2  to  the  SO  stipulates  that  the  issue  of  a  specified 
stablecoin by a licensee must be prudent and sound, having regard to the purpose, 
business  model  and  operational  arrangement  of  the  issue.    To  this  end,  the 
licensee should: 

(i) 

(ii) 

Adopt a strategy that aligns with the principle of ensuring the soundness 
and reliability of the specified stablecoins it issues; 

Have in place a business plan that is realistic, concrete, viable, and has 
a reasonable prospect of generating sufficient demand for the specified 
stablecoins  it  issues  to  ensure  sustainability  of  its  licensed  stablecoin 
activities; 

(iii)  Carry on licensed stablecoin activities in a prudent manner, for example 
to up-keep its reputation and to collaborate with reputable partners, such 
that  it  would  not  adversely  affect  the  interests  of  specified  stablecoin 
holders and/or monetary and financial stability of Hong Kong; 

(iv)  Comply  with  statutory  and  regulatory  requirements  in  relevant 

jurisdictions; and 

(v) 

Have adequate capability and resources to execute its business plan, and 
cope  with  internal  and  external  shocks  as  well  as  unexpected 
contingencies. 

4.3.2.  When  considering  whether  a  licensee  is  carrying  on  licensed  stablecoin 
activities with prudence and soundness, factors including but not limited to the 
following should be taken into account: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

The nature, complexity and scale of the business model and operational 
arrangement of the licensee; 

The risks to the continuity of the financial functions provided or to be 
provided by the licensee; 

The  effect  of  any  disruption  to  the  continuous  performance  of  such 
functions  and  activities  that  may  have  on  the  monetary  and  financial 
stability of Hong Kong; and 

(iv) 

The mitigating measures that are implemented by the licensee. 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 

Financial resources 

5.1.  Minimum paid-up share capital 

5.1.1.  Section 4 of Schedule 2 to the SO sets out the minimum criteria on financial 
resources  of  a  licensee.    A  licensee  should  demonstrate  that  it  has  sufficient 
financial resources to maintain its licensed stablecoin activities and to meet all 
its obligations, as  well as  to  ensure an orderly exit, either voluntarily or as a 
result of  revocation of its licence.   The licensee  must  maintain at  all times a 
paid-up  share  capital  of  at  least  HK$25,000,000  (or  an  equivalent  amount  in 
another  currency  that  is  freely  convertible  into  Hong  Kong  dollars)  or  other 
financial  resources  in  an  equivalent  amount  as  approved  by  the  Monetary 
Authority.  Under section 17 of the SO, the Monetary Authority may attach to 
a  licence  any  condition  that  the  Monetary  Authority  considers  appropriate, 
including but not limited to imposing requirements for the licensee to maintain 
additional financial resources, such as requiring a level of paid-up share capital 
greater than that  set  out  in  the minimum  criteria  applicable in  relation  to  the 
licensee. 

5.1.2.  The  proportion  of  a  licensee’s  financial  resources  that  are  used  to  meet  the 
financial  resources  requirement  should  only  be  used  for  the  purposes  of  its 
business  activities  and  should  not  be  used  for  any  dealing  with  its  related 
companies or parties, including shareholders, directors and senior management. 

5.1.3.  The requirements in paragraphs 5.1.1 and 5.1.2 do not apply to a licensee that 
is an authorized institution.  A licensee that is an authorized institution should 
comply with requirements under the Banking Ordinance (Cap. 155) and relevant 
guidance. 

5.2.  Liquid assets 

5.2.1.  Section 4 of Schedule 2 to the SO stipulates that a licensee must have adequate 
financial resources and liquid assets to meet its obligations as they will or may 
fall due.  To this end, the licensee should maintain sufficient liquid net assets 
funded by equity (i.e. not from loans, guarantees or borrowings of similar nature) 
to meet its obligations.  When considering the sufficiency of liquid net assets, 
factors including but not limited to the historical as well as projected operating 
expenses  should  be  taken  into  account.    To  ensure  fulfilment  of  such 
requirement, the licensee should ensure that there is secure ongoing source of 
financial resources. 

5.2.2.  The  requirements  in  paragraph  5.2.1  do  not  apply  to  a  licensee  that  is  an 
authorized institution.  A licensee that is an authorized institution should comply 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with  requirements  under  the  Banking  Ordinance  (Cap.  155)  and  relevant 
guidance. 

19 

 
 
 
 
6. 

Risk management 

6.1.  Overview 

6.1.1.  Section 9 of Schedule 2 to the SO stipulates that a licensee must have in place 
and  implement  adequate  and  appropriate  risk  management  policies  and 
procedures for managing the risks arising from the carrying on of its licensed 
stablecoin  activities  that  are  commensurate  with  the  scale  and  complexity  of 
those activities. 

6.2.  Risk governance 

6.2.1.  Risk governance refers to the formal arrangements that enable the  Board and 
senior  management  of  a  licensee  to  establish  a  sound  business  strategy, 
articulate and monitor adherence to risk appetite and risk limits, and identify, 
measure, manage and control risks. 

6.2.2.  To ensure effective risk management, a licensee should establish a set of risk 
governance arrangements, whereby the responsibilities of the Board, specialised 
committees (if any), senior management and different functions of the licensee, 
are well-defined. 

6.2.3.  In  practice,  a  licensee  should  establish  three  lines  of  defence  which  are 

independent from one another in risk governance. 

(i) 

(ii) 

The  first  line  of  defence  is  provided  by  business  units,  which  should 
conduct  risk identification, assessment, management  and  reporting on 
an ongoing basis. 

The second line of defence is provided by independent risk management 
and compliance functions.  The risk management function is responsible 
for  the  overall  risk  identification,  assessment,  monitoring,  reporting, 
control and mitigation, while the compliance function is responsible for 
managing compliance risk (see paragraph 7.1.6). 

(iii) 

The third line of defence should be provided by an independent internal 
audit function (see paragraph 7.1.7). 

6.2.4.  A  licensee  should  ensure  that  its  risk  management,  compliance  and  internal 
audit  functions  (collectively,  the  “internal  control  functions”)  have  adequate 
authority  and  resources  to  perform  their  duties,  clear  responsibilities  and 
accountability, as well as a direct reporting line to the senior management (for 
risk management and compliance functions) or the Board / a Board committee 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(for internal audit function).  In addition, the risk management function should 
have direct access to the Board, while the compliance function should have the 
right to report matters to the Board directly as necessary.  The internal control 
functions should also be independent from front-line business units, and have 
unfettered access to information that is necessary for carrying out their duties. 

6.3.  Risk management framework and internal control system 

6.3.1.  A  licensee  should  establish  an  effective  risk  management  framework,  with 
clearly defined and documented policies and procedures, for the identification, 
assessment,  monitoring,  reporting,  control  and  mitigation  of  risks.    The 
licensee’s risk management policies and procedures should take into account all 
the activities performed by the licensee and cover all material risks, including 
but  not  limited  to  credit,  liquidity  and  market  risks  (see  paragraph  6.4), 
technology  risks  (see  paragraph  6.5),  operational  risks  (see  paragraph  6.6), 
reputation  risks  (see  paragraph  6.7),  and  money  laundering  and  terrorist 
financing  risks  (see  Guideline  on  Anti-Money  Laundering  and  Counter-
Financing of Terrorism (For Licensed Stablecoin Issuers)).   

6.3.2.  For risk identification and assessment, a licensee should, on an ongoing basis, 
identify  and  assess  its  exposure  to  all  material  risks  associated  with  its 
businesses.  In the identification of risks, the licensee should take into account 
both  external  and  internal  factors,  such  as  industry  and  market  trends,  any 
particular sectors that  the licensee  aims to  serve, as  well as its  own business 
model and operations. 

6.3.3.  For  risk  monitoring  and  reporting,  a  licensee  should  implement  measures  to 
monitor  its  risk  profiles  and  material  exposures  on  an  ongoing  basis.    The 
measures  should  include  qualitative  and  quantitative  assessments  of  the 
licensee’s  risk  exposure,  as  well  as  appropriate  metrics  that  provide  an  early 
warning on the materialisation of risks.  The licensee should provide timely risk 
reports  with  comprehensive,  accurate,  actionable  and  comprehensible 
information  to its  senior management and the Board.  The  results of the risk 
monitoring, as well as other relevant materials, such as assessments of the risk 
management framework performed by the risk management function or internal 
audit  function  /  external  auditors,  regulatory  reports,  and  management  letters 
issued by external auditors, should also be included in the reports. 

6.3.4.  For risk control and mitigation, a licensee should establish an effective internal 
control system that promotes efficient operation, provides reliable financial and 
management 
integrity  and 
confidentiality  of  essential  data,  enables  detection  and  prevention  of 
irregularities, frauds and errors, ensures effective risk management systems and 
ensures compliance with relevant statutory provisions, regulatory requirements 
and internal policies.  The internal control system should cover all material risks, 

the  availability, 

information, 

safeguards 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and include appropriate policies and procedures to control or mitigate the risks, 
processes  for  verifying  compliance  with  internal  controls,  as  well  as 
consequences of non-compliance. 

6.3.5.  A licensee should review its risk management framework and internal control 
system regularly and at least on an annual basis.  Any shortcomings identified 
during such review should be promptly addressed and reflected in the updated 
framework as well as policies and procedures.  The framework, policies and key 
procedures, as well as any material changes, should be approved by the Board.  
The  licensee  should  also  conduct  regular  audits  to  assess  (i)  whether  its 
operations are in compliance with its risk management framework and internal 
control  system,  as  well  as  the  applicable  regulatory  requirements,  and  (ii) 
whether  the  risk  management  framework  and  internal  control  system  are 
adequate  in  addressing  the  material  risks  encountered  by  the  licensee.    The 
licensee should report the audit outcomes, including any material findings, to 
the  HKMA  in  a  timely  manner  and  promptly  provide  the  audit  report  and 
relevant supporting documents to the HKMA upon request. 

6.4.  Credit, liquidity and market risk management 

6.4.1.  Paragraph (a) of section 5(6) of Schedule 2 to the SO stipulates that a licensee 
must have in place and implement adequate and appropriate risk management 
policies and procedures for managing its reserve assets to ensure that they are 
properly managed so that valid redemption requests can be honoured without 
undue delay.  To this end, the licensee’s risk management framework should 
cover  credit,  liquidity  and  market  risks.    The  licensee  should  ensure  that  the 
specified stablecoins it issues are fully backed by the reserve assets at all times, 
in  both  normal  and  stressed  conditions,  such  that  it  is  able  to  meet  all  valid 
redemption requests without undue delay. 

6.4.2.  For credit risk management, a licensee should implement measures to manage 
credit risk exposures to the counterparties in relation to the management of its 
reserve assets.  Having regard to the creditworthiness of each counterparty, the 
licensee should set out and enforce internal limits on the credit risk exposures, 
which  should  be  applied  taking  into  account  the  linked  counterparties.    In 
practice, the licensee should establish and maintain a set of response procedures 
in the event that any of the internal limits have been exceeded, including prompt 
notification to  the HKMA if any such  internal  limit  has been  exceeded  for a 
prolonged period of time (e.g. more than one (1) business day).  The licensee 
should also set out internal targets for facilitating the maintenance of credit risk 
exposures to counterparties within the boundaries of the internal limits. 

6.4.3.  For  liquidity  risk  management,  a  licensee  should  establish  an  effective 
framework for projecting and monitoring liquidity demand arising from valid 
redemption requests under normal and stressed conditions.  The licensee should 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
implement  measures  for  managing  the  liquidity  profile  of  the  reserve  assets 
(including intraday liquidity management), such as managing the allocation to 
the types of instruments, as well as maturities and counterparties, to ensure that 
the  liquidity  profile  of  its  reserve  assets  would  enable  it  to  meet  all  valid 
redemption  requests  without  undue  delay.    In  formulating  the  policies  and 
procedures,  factors  including  but  not  limited  to  the  liquidity  of  instruments, 
trading hours and settlement timeframes, term and early withdrawal option (for 
deposits) and risks of concentration should be taken into account. 

6.4.4.  A  licensee  should  put  in  place  liquidity  risk  indicators  for  monitoring  the 
liquidity  profile  of  the  reserve  assets,  such  as  cash  ratio  and  proportion  of 
reserve assets that could be converted to cash for meeting redemption demand 
within certain timeframes.  In practice, the licensee should set out and enforce 
internal limits for the liquidity risk indicators, as well as establish and maintain 
a set of response procedures in the event that any of the internal limits have been 
exceeded, including prompt notification to the HKMA if any such internal limit 
has  been  exceeded  for  a  prolonged  period  of  time  (e.g.  more  than  one  (1) 
business day).  The licensee should also set out internal targets for facilitating 
the maintenance of liquidity risk indicators within the boundaries of the internal 
limits. 

6.4.5.  For  market  risk  management,  a  licensee  should  put  in  place  market  risk 
indicators  for  monitoring  the  market  risk  profile  of  the  reserve  assets.    In 
practice, the licensee should set out and enforce internal limits for the market 
risk indicators, as well as establish and maintain a set of response procedures in 
the event that any of the internal limits have been exceeded, including prompt 
notification to  the HKMA if any such internal  limit  has  been  exceeded for a 
prolonged period of time (e.g. more than one (1) business day).  The licensee 
should also  set  out  internal  targets for facilitating the maintenance of market 
risk indicators within the boundaries of the internal limits.  In addition, as a risk 
mitigating  measure, the  licensee should  apply  an appropriate degree of over-
collateralisation for the reserve assets to provide sufficient buffer for potential 
changes in market prices, having regard to the market risk profile of the reserve 
assets. 

Stress test 

6.4.6.  A licensee should conduct stress tests regularly based on severe but plausible 
scenarios to assess the robustness of its portfolio of reserve assets when facing 
credit,  liquidity  and  market  stress  as  well  as  adequacy  of  risk  management 
measures.  These scenarios, as well as the assumptions used in the scenarios, 
should be reviewed regularly, and any material changes should be approved by 
the Board. 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4.7.  A licensee should conduct stress tests on at least a quarterly basis, and should 
submit  the  methodologies,  data  sources  and  results  of  each  stress  test  to  the 
Board and the HKMA. 

6.5.  Technology risk management 

6.5.1.  A  licensee  should  put  in  place  a  technology  risk  management  framework  to 
ensure  (i)  the  adequacy  of  information  technology  (“IT”)  controls,  (ii)  the 
quality  and  security,  including  the  reliability,  robustness,  stability  and 
availability,  of  its  technologies,  and  (iii)  the  safety  and  efficiency  of  its 
operations.  Such framework should cover, but is not limited to, the following 
areas. 

Token management 

6.5.2.  For  each  type  of  specified  stablecoins  it  issues,  a  licensee  should  clearly 
document (i) the token standards used, (ii) the distributed ledgers on which such 
specified stablecoins are issued, and (iii) the architecture of all smart contracts 
(including  token  contract,  proxy  contract,  multi-signature  contracts,  etc.)  in 
respect  of  such  specified  stablecoins,  including  upgradeability  (if  any),  state 
variables, functions, function modifiers, libraries, interfaces, etc. 

6.5.3.  A licensee should identify all operations in relation to the management of the 
full lifecycle of each type of specified stablecoins it issues, which should cover 
deploy,  configure,  mint,  burn,  upgrade,  pause,  resume,  blacklist,  remove 
blacklist, freeze, remove freeze, whitelist, usage of any operational wallets, etc.  
For  each  operation,  the  licensee  should  put  in  place  a  required  level  of 
authorisation  proportionate  to  the  level  of  risk  of  the  operation,  as  well  as 
triggers and conditions for execution.  In addition, the licensee should ensure 
that high-risk operations are designed in a way that prevents any single party 
from being able to perform the relevant operations unilaterally (e.g. by multi-
signature protocol).  The licensee should also put in place detailed procedures 
with  necessary  controls  to  ensure  that  the  execution  of  operations,  including 
exception  handling,  is  secure.    Where  applicable,  the  licensee  should  also 
impose  additional  security  measures,  such  as  setting  velocity  limits  on 
transactions, restricting minting only to whitelisted wallet addresses, timelock 
on certain operations, pre-signed transactions for certain operations, off-chain 
simulation and checking of signed transactions before broadcasting transactions, 
etc. to minimise risks of being compromised. 

6.5.4.  A licensee should authorise suitable staff members to execute operations, and 
such staff members should go through appropriate screening and training.  The 
execution of different operations should also be sufficiently segregated and split 
between different authorised staff members to ensure there are adequate checks 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and balances and minimise the risk of any single point of failure or collusive 
manipulation.  To ensure that operations can be carried out in a timely manner, 
the licensee should also put in place a staffing plan to ensure relevant personnel 
are  available  for  the  necessary  execution  of  operations.    Furthermore, 
procedures  should  also  be  put  in  place  for  the  transition  of  the  roles  and 
responsibilities of, or changes to the authorised staff members, as well as for 
immediate revocation of an authorised staff member’s authority.  The licensee 
should  also  ensure  there  are  sufficient  checks  and  balances  such  that  no 
authorised  staff  member  should  be  able  to  have  full  control  over  role 
management  (e.g.  assigning  roles  of  authorised  personnel,  altering  the 
transaction  approval  processes,  changing  the  number  of  required  authorised 
staff members, etc.). 

6.5.5.  In  respect  of  each  type  of  specified  stablecoins  it  issues,  a  licensee  should 
identify the technological elements that would impact the issuance, redemption, 
as well as the usage of such specified stablecoins.  In particular, for distributed 
ledgers on which the specified stablecoins are to be operated, the licensee should 
assess  the  robustness  of  the  technologies,  including  but  not  limited  to  the 
security infrastructure, such as cryptography used; the consensus mechanism, 
encompassing  factors  like  level  of  decentralisation,  fault  tolerance  level  and 
incentives mechanism; the capacity and scalability; the availability and results 
of third party audits or assessments; the resistance to common attacks, including 
a  51%  attack  or  similar  attacks  which  would  have  an  impact  on  transaction 
finality; and the historical security track record, as well as risks relating to code 
defects, breaches, exploits and other threats.  The licensee should also engage a 
qualified third party entity to audit (e.g. formal verification, security review) the 
smart  contracts  in  respect  of  such  specified  stablecoins  on  at  least  an  annual 
basis as well as whenever there is deployment, redeployment, or an upgrade to 
the  smart  contracts,  to  ensure  that  the  smart  contracts  (i)  are  implemented 
correctly, (ii) consistent with the intended functionalities, and (iii) are, to a high 
level of confidence, not subject to any vulnerabilities or security flaws.  When 
assessing  whether  a  third  party  entity  is  qualified,  factors  including  but  not 
limited  to  its  size,  capabilities,  expertise,  track  record,  reputation,  as  well  as 
presence in Hong Kong should be considered. 

6.5.6.  A  licensee  should  implement  measures  for  continuously  monitoring  the 
availability, capacity, performance, as well as expected updates or changes in 
the underlying technology, as well as for reporting any exceptions (e.g. failure 
or  unavailability).    Policies  and  procedures  should  also  be  put  in  place  for 
responding to material changes or incidents (see paragraph 6.8). 

Wallet and private key management 

6.5.7.  A licensee should put in place effective controls and procedures for private key 
management  covering  its  full  lifecycle,  including  but  not  limited  to  key 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
generation, distribution, storage, usage, back-up, recovery, destruction, etc.  The 
licensee  should  identify  all  seeds  and/or  private  keys  relevant  to  the 
management of the specified stablecoins it issues, and adopt measures including 
but not limited to those listed below, on a scale proportionate to the significance 
of the seeds and/or private keys to its operations.  Generally speaking, the seeds 
and/or private keys involved in (i) deployment or upgrade of smart contracts in 
relation  to  the  specified  stablecoins,  (ii)  role  management  (e.g.  setting  and 
revoking roles of minters and other roles that are involved in the management 
of the specified stablecoins), as well as (iii) operations that materially affect the 
supply  of  the  specified  stablecoins  (e.g.  large-scale  minting  and  burning) 
(“Significant Seeds and/or Private Keys”) should be subject to elevated security 
standards. 

(i) 

(ii) 

Hardware  and  software  management:  A  licensee  should  identify  all 
hardware and software involved in wallet and private key management, 
including but not limited to storage media for the seeds and/or private 
keys,  devices  for  interacting  with  the  storage  media  of  seeds  and/or 
private keys, policy engines for managing authorisation for access to or 
usage  of  seeds  and/or  private  keys,  personal  security  devices, 
transmission  devices,  smart  cards,  signing  applications  and  key 
management systems.  The licensee should ensure that the hardware and 
software  adopted  are  secure,  reliable  and  effective,  and  that  the 
procurement  channels are secure with  effective  measures  to  minimise 
the risks of supply chain attack.  In addition, the licensee should ensure 
that there are clearly defined responsibilities and effective measures for 
initialisation,  usage,  management,  maintenance,  and  destruction  / 
discontinuation  of  hardware  and  software.    Responsible  personnel 
should also undergo appropriate screening and training. 

Key generation: A licensee should ensure the seeds (where applicable) 
are  generated  in  a  non-deterministic  manner  using  strong  and  widely 
recognised  cryptographic  algorithms  which  ensures  randomness  and 
that the seeds are not reproducible.  Private keys should be generated or 
derived  from  seeds  in  line  with  the  above  requirements.    The  key 
ceremony should be conducted by the licensee and only by a minimal 
number of authorised staff members with stringent controls in place to 
prevent leakage, as well as sufficient checks and balances.  The seeds 
and/or private keys should be generated in a secure environment, such 
as a hardware security module (“HSM”) with appropriate certification.  
For  Significant  Seeds  and/or  Private  Keys,  generation  should  occur 
offline  and  incorporate  elevated  security  measures.    In  practice,  the 
generation of such seeds and/or private keys should be conducted in an 
air-gapped  environment,  with  effective  physical  security  controls  in 
place. 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
(iii)  Key  distribution:  For  the  distribution  of  seeds  and/or  private  keys,  a 
licensee should adopt a secure methodology to ensure that the integrity 
and confidentiality of the seeds and/or private keys are safeguarded, for 
example  via  integrity  mechanisms,  physical  security  measures  (for 
manual  distribution)  as  well  as  encryption  using  strong  and  widely 
recognised cryptographic algorithms.  Mechanisms should also be put in 
place for establishing assurance over the integrity and confidentiality of 
the seeds and/or private keys subsequent to their distribution, as well as 
for detecting any integrity failures or breaches of confidentiality. 

(iv)  Key  storage:  The  seeds  and/or  private  keys  should  be  safeguarded  in 
secure storage media, such as HSM with appropriate certification, in a 
secure  facility  with  stringent  access  control  and  monitoring  systems 
located in Hong Kong, or at a location acceptable to the HKMA.  Other 
hardware  or  software  for  managing  the  usage  of  seeds  and/or  private 
keys  should  also  be  securely  safeguarded  in  secure  environments.  
Where multiple seeds and/or private keys are involved in the adoption 
of a multi-signature mechanism, the seeds and/or private keys should be 
stored  separately  in  secure  environments  which  are  isolated  from  one 
another.  The licensee should also ensure that the private keys are not 
displayed in the full alphanumeric form.  For Significant Seeds and/or 
Private Keys, the licensee should ensure that the storage media, as well 
as  other  hardware  or  software  for  managing  the  usage  of  such  seeds 
and/or private keys are safeguarded in an air-gapped environment, and 
that they are not stored in any computational environment or memory 
space in any systems connected to the Internet. 

(v) 

Physical  security  of  key  storage:  A  licensee  should  ensure  that  the 
physical  location  and  storage  media  are  safeguarded  against  physical 
damage  or  unauthorised  access,  and  monitoring  measures  are 
implemented  to  detect  and  respond  to  suspected  unauthorised  access.  
Examples  of  measures  include  (i)  placing  the  storage  media  in  rack 
cabinets placed in within a secure area safeguarded by mantrap as well 
as multiple layers of multi-factor authentication for access control, (ii) 
establishing  alert  and  logging  systems  for  access,  (iii)  implementing 
environmental control and monitoring measures (e.g. fire, temperature, 
electromagnetic  fields),  (iv)  putting  in  place  monitoring  measures  by 
closed-circuit television (“CCTV”), etc.  In addition to storage media of 
seeds  and/or  private  keys,  other  hardware  involved  in  private  key 
management  should  also  be  safeguarded  within  secure  environments 
with necessary access control measures. 

(vi)  Key inventory: A licensee should maintain a key inventory with timely 
updates, which should include information about each private key (e.g. 
personnel authorised to access the private keys, function of private keys, 
status of the private keys, etc.) to facilitate its key management. 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
(vii)  Key  usage:  A  licensee  should  put  in  place  effective  policies  and 
procedures for managing the usage of seeds and/or private keys.  The 
allowed operations and conditions for key usage should be clearly set 
out and strictly enforced.  Access to seeds and/or private keys should be 
tightly  restricted  among  staff  members  who  are  authorised  by  the 
licensee  and  have  undergone  appropriate  screening  and  training,  and 
should  be  based  on  the  principle  of  least  privilege  (i.e.  access  rights 
should be restricted to the greatest extent possible).  Key usage should 
also be safeguarded by multi-factor authentication, and the private keys 
should  be  used  within  trusted  environments.    In  addition,  measures 
should be put in place to ensure (i) staff members responsible for key 
usage are able to interpret the semantic content of the transactions to be 
approved, and (ii) consistency between transactions to be approved and 
the  semantic  content  displayed  to  staff  members.    Adequate  security 
measures  should  also  be  implemented  to  minimise  the  risks  of 
authorised  staff  members  being  compromised  (e.g.  kidnap  and 
extortion).  For Significant Seeds and/or Private Keys, key usage and the 
management  of  authorisation  should  require  direct  physical  presence 
within  the  confines  of  the  air-gapped  environment  where  the  storage 
media for seeds and/or private keys is safeguarded, and the transfer of 
transaction information between the air-gapped environment and other 
environment should be properly safeguarded to prevent tampering. 

(viii)  Key  rotation  and  destruction:  A  licensee  should  identify  seeds  and/or 
private  keys  that  are  being  frequently  used  and  hence  have  a  higher 
probability of leakage, and consider implementing measures for regular 
key  rotation  to  minimise  the  risks  of  seeds  and/or  private  keys  being 
compromised.    Also,  the  licensee  should  implement  measures  for  the 
destruction of seeds and/or private keys where applicable and ensure that 
all  copies  of  the  seeds  and/or  private  keys,  including  back-ups,  are 
destroyed.    Comprehensive  impact  analysis  as  well  as  verification 
should also  be carried out  prior to  destruction of seeds and/or private 
keys. 

(ix)  Key compromise: A licensee should implement measures for monitoring 
usage  of  seeds  and/or  private  keys  (e.g.  IP  checking,  behaviour 
monitoring,  alert  for  key  activities,  device  screening,  on-chain 
monitoring, access control monitoring, etc.).  The licensee should also 
implement  measures  to  promptly  address  any  actual  or  suspected 
compromise  of  the  seeds  and/or  private  keys.    Upon  detection  of  a 
compromise,  the  licensee  should  immediately  notify  the  designated 
personnel  to  initiate an incident  response and revoke (or destruct) the 
compromised seeds and/or private keys.  Following the revocation, the 
process  of  generating  and  deploying  new  keys  using  secure  methods 
should be carried out to ensure the ongoing security of token operations.  

28 

 
 
 
 
 
(x) 

Measures  should  also  be  implemented  for  investigating  the  issue  and 
carrying out any disciplinary actions for wilful or negligent mishandling. 

Key  back-up:  Tying  in  with  its  incident  management  framework  and 
business continuity plan (see paragraph 6.8), a licensee should identify 
an  appropriate  scope  of  back-up  of  seeds  and/or  private  keys.    The 
licensee should ensure these seeds and/or private keys are backed-up in 
Hong Kong (or a location acceptable to the HKMA) at multiple secure 
locations, and the locations and nature of the back-up materials should 
be kept confidential from third parties.  The licensee should also ensure 
that the seeds and/or private keys cannot be re-generated based solely on 
the back-ups stored in a single physical location.  In addition, the back-
ups should be generated and distributed with at least the same level of 
security standard for the original seeds and/or private keys.  The licensee 
should utilise robust storage media for safeguarding the back-up, with 
measures for preventing unauthorised access as well as tamper-evident 
features.  Any re-generation of seeds and/or private keys should require 
at  least  the  same  level  of  security  as  the  business-as-usual  key  usage 
arrangement  (e.g.  re-generation  would  require  the  same  number  of 
quorum as key usage, with sufficient segregation of duties). 

(xi)  Key recovery: The licensee should put in place effective procedures for 
recovering seeds and/or private keys in a timely manner, whereby the 
conditions for triggering recovery procedures, authorisations required, 
procedures for key recovery, as well as validation actions for ensuring 
security of the re-generated keys are clearly documented and enforced.  
The authorisation control for key recovery should be at least as robust 
as  the  authorisation  control  for  the  usage  of  the  original  seeds  and/or 
private keys.  The recovery procedures should be regularly tested and 
rehearsed to ensure operational smoothness and assess its effectiveness.  
The licensee should put in place procedures to inform the HKMA in the 
event  where  key  recovery  procedures  are  triggered,  as  well  as 
procedures  to  conduct  reviews  for  identifying  potential  issues  and 
enhancing measures after such procedures are triggered. 

(xii)  Logs:  A  licensee  should  maintain  logs  for  the  full  lifecycle  of  seeds 
and/or private keys, covering key generation, distribution, storage, usage, 
back-up, recovery, revocation, destruction, as well as any access to them 
(including  successful  and  failed  attempts).    The  logs  may  include 
different  types  of  logs  (e.g.  CCTV  footage,  access  logs,  on-chain 
transaction  logs,  internal  system  logs,  etc.).    Among  other  things,  the 
logs should ensure that any access to the seeds and/or private keys can 
be  traced  to  the  relevant  staff  members.    The  licensee  should  clearly 
designate  staff  members  to  maintain  the  logs  and  define  their 
responsibilities,  and  implement  measures  to  ensure  that  the  logs  are 
retained  for  a  sufficiently  long  period  of  time  and  are  not  subject  to 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
unauthorised  editing.    The  licensee  should  also  review  the  logs 
periodically to ensure that all access to seeds and/or private keys are in 
line with the authorisations granted. 

Account management 

6.5.8.  During the customer on-boarding process, a licensee should adopt an effective 
authentication method to establish and verify the identity of a potential customer 
having regard to the nature of the customer (i.e. natural or non-natural person).  
The licensee should also establish at least one secure ongoing communication 
channel with the customers.  The licensee should inform its customers of such 
communication channels and that any message which purports to be sent by or 
on behalf of the licensee via any other means is not reliable. 

6.5.9.  When fulfilling a customer’s request for issuance or redemption of the specified 
stablecoins it issues, a licensee should transfer funds only to and accept fund 
transfers from  the customer’s pre-registered  bank accounts (or other  types of 
pre-registered accounts, in case funding channels other than banks are used), as 
well as transfer specified stablecoins only to and accept transfers of specified 
stablecoins from the customer’s pre-registered wallet addresses / accounts.  The 
licensee should implement effective measures to ensure that only bank accounts 
(or other types of pre-registered accounts, in case funding channels other than 
banks  are  used)  which  are  in  the  customer’s  name,  and  wallet  addresses  / 
accounts  belonging  to  the  customer  /  in  the  customer’s  name  can  be  pre-
registered with the licensee. 

6.5.10. A  licensee  should  authenticate  customers’  identities  as  customers  perform 
account  operations  (e.g.  logging  into  accounts,  requesting  for  issuance  or 
redemption of specified stablecoins, changing their particulars, pre-registering 
bank accounts or wallet addresses).  The licensee should consider implementing 
an effective two-factor authentication mechanism in a manner proportionate to 
the risks of the account operations, where at least two out of the three types of 
factors (i.e. (i) something a customer knows; (ii) something a customer has; and 
(iii)  something  a  customer  is)  are  utilised  for  authentication.    Where  any 
information  (e.g.  one-time  password  (“OTP”))  is  being  delivered  in  the 
authentication process, the licensee should ensure the information is delivered 
through  a  secure  channel  and  in  a  secure  manner.    If  device  binding  or 
registration is one of the authentication methods, the licensee should implement 
adequate  measures  (e.g.  limiting  the  number  of  devices  being  bound  or 
registered)  to  minimise  the  risks  of  compromise.    If  an  OTP  is  used  as  an 
authentication factor, the licensee should implement effective management and 
security  measures  (e.g.  implementing  sound  key  management  practice  to 
safeguard the  secret  code for  generating the OTP).   In addition  to  two-factor 
authentication, a notification should also be sent to the customer via the secure 
communication  channel  in  a  timely  manner.    The  licensee  should  implement 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
other measures, including but not limited to requirements on the strength (e.g. 
length, complexity and history) of passwords, reminder for changing passwords, 
limitations on the number of login or authentication attempts, timeout controls, 
time limits for authentication as well as validity of OTP (if adopted), to enhance 
account security. 

6.5.11. A licensee should implement measures to ensure all transactions in relation to 
customers’  accounts  are  logged,  providing  a  clear  audit  trail.    Secure 
mechanisms  should  be  adopted  for  logging  detailed  transaction  data  such  as 
transaction  identifiers,  timestamps  and  parameter  changes,  with  strict  access 
controls for authorised personnel only.  The licensee should also offer avenues 
for customers to review their past transactions. 

6.5.12. A licensee should also establish effective monitoring mechanisms to prevent, 
detect  and  block  unauthorised  access  to  customers’  accounts  and  fraudulent 
transactions  in  relation  to  customers’  accounts.    Suspicious  or  high-risk 
transactions should be subject to specific screening and evaluation procedures.  
The  licensee  should  also  implement  measures,  including  but  not  limited  to 
allowing customers to set limits on different types of transactions, to minimise 
the risks of fraudulent transactions.  In addition, the licensee should put in place 
procedures to monitor and manage the risks associated with fraudulent emails, 
websites, apps, etc.  The licensee should also provide advice to its customers on 
security precautions as appropriate. 

6.5.13. If a licensee provides programmable access for customers to their accounts (e.g. 
via  an  application  programming  interface),  the  licensee  should  implement 
adequate security measures for such channels, covering authentication, integrity, 
confidentiality  and  authorisation.    The  licensee  should  also  provide  relevant 
detailed documentation to customers. 

Security management 

6.5.14. A  licensee  should  implement  adequate  measures  to  maintain  a  high  level  of 

security of its IT assets, which should include the following: 

(i) 

System  security:  A  licensee  should  put  in  place  and  maintain  control 
procedures and baseline security requirements to safeguard its IT assets.  
A licensee should also have a process to ensure all configurations and 
settings  of  its  IT  assets  are  adequately  and  accurately  maintained.  
Internal  reviews  on  the  compliance  of  the  security  settings  with  the 
baseline security requirements, as well as vulnerability assessments for 
detecting security vulnerabilities should be performed regularly. 

(ii) 

Authentication and access control: A licensee should enforce restricted 
access  to  its  IT  assets  through  robust  authentication  mechanisms  and 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
defined access control rules, which specify allowable user interactions 
with application functions, system resources, and data.  Users should be 
uniquely  identified  using  unique  user-identification  codes  (e.g.  user 
identifiers) coupled with secure authentication methods (e.g. passwords) 
to  ensure traceability of  actions.   The licensee should  also  implement 
stringent password policies that prevent the use of simple passwords and 
mandate  regular  updates,  particularly  for  high-risk  activities  which 
should  employ  multi-factor  authentication.    The  management  of 
privileged and emergency access should be handled with extra diligence, 
requiring  strict  authorisation  protocols,  formal  approval  processes, 
timely 
continuous  monitoring  of  activities,  secure  storage  and 
modification of access credentials.  User access re-certification as well 
as rotation of access credentials should be performed on a periodic basis 
as well.  A security administration function should be established and a 
set of procedures should be put in place for administering the allocation 
of access rights to IT assets.  In addition, proper segregation of duties 
within  the  security  administration  function  or  other  compensating 
controls (e.g. peer reviews) should be implemented to mitigate the risks 
of  unauthorised  activities  being  performed  by 
security 
administration function. 

the 

Security  monitoring:  A  licensee  should  implement  adequate  and 
effective measures as well as necessary tools (e.g. intrusion prevention 
system,  intrusion  detection  system,  endpoint  detection  and  response 
technology, security information and event management solutions) for 
continuous security monitoring, covering areas including log retention, 
monitoring  of  critical  configurations  and  security  settings  to  identify 
unauthorised changes, blocking anomalies on IT assets, performing real-
time analysis on security logs and events for critical IT assets, handling 
of suspicious and confirmed breaches or cyber incidents, etc.  Measures 
should  also  be  implemented  to  ensure  relevant  personnel  are  notified 
upon the detection of suspected breaches. 

Patch management: A licensee should implement a patch management 
process  covering  the  identification,  categorisation,  prioritisation  and 
installation  of  security  patches.    The  process  should  include  the 
assessment  of  severity  and  impact  on  systems  to  ensure  that  security 
patches for its IT assets are deployed in a timely manner. 

Physical and personnel security: A licensee should implement adequate 
physical  security  measures  for  safeguarding  its  IT  assets.    Critical 
information processing facilities should be housed in secure areas such 
as  data  centres  and  network  equipment  rooms  with  adequate  security 
controls on physical access.  Access to these areas should be restricted 
to  authorised  personnel  only,  with  the  access  rights  being  subject  to 
regular  review  and  updates.    If  third  party  personnel  (e.g.  service 

32 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

 
 
 
 
 
(vi) 

providers) require access to such areas, approval should be obtained and 
their activities should be monitored.  The licensee should also implement 
environmental  controls  to  monitor  and  mitigate  risks  associated  with 
environmental hazards, power failures and electrical disturbances.  The 
licensee should perform periodic risk assessments for such secure areas 
to identify security threats and operational weaknesses, and to assess the 
adequacy  of  safeguarding  controls.    For  sensitive  technology-related 
positions,  appropriate  background  checks  and  screening  should  be 
conducted. 

licensee  should 
Endpoint  security  and  end-user  computing:  A 
implement  adequate measures to  restrict unauthorised activities at  the 
endpoint devices (including devices provided by  the licensee and  any 
other devices that can access the licensee’s computer resources).  The 
licensee  should  also  implement  controls  to  detect  and  prevent  attacks 
(e.g.  computer  viruses  and  other  malicious  software)  on  endpoint 
devices.    If  the  licensee’s  computer  resources  can  be  accessed  using 
mobile devices, controls should be put in place to manage the risks of 
working in  an unprotected  environment  (e.g.  approval  process  for the 
use  of  mobile  devices  accessing  the  licensee’s  computer  resources, 
authentication control, data encryption).  If the licensee adopts end-user 
computing,  it  should  implement  adequate  measures  to  address  the 
associated risks, covering areas including data security, documentation, 
data / file storage and back-up, system recovery, audit responsibilities 
and training.  The licensee should also maintain an inventory of end-user 
developed software. 

Information management 

6.5.15. A  licensee  should  put  in  place  policies  and  procedures  for  information 

management, which should cover the following areas: 

(i) 

(ii) 

Information ownership and classification: A licensee should put in place 
procedures for assigning information owner and classifying information 
into  different  categories  according  to  the  degree  of  sensitivity  with 
corresponding  protection  measures,  which  should  include  access  and 
authentication  control  to  ensure  access  to  information  is  restricted  to 
authorised persons. 

Information  in  storage  and  transmission:  A  licensee  should  ensure 
sensitive information is  encrypted and stored in  a secure environment 
with  strong  and  widely  recognised  encryption  techniques  so  that  it  is 
protected from theft and unauthorised access or modification.  Sensitive 
information  that  is  being  transmitted  to  and/or  from  the  licensee’s 

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
systems should also be secured by end-to-end encryption, using strong 
and widely recognised encryption techniques. 

(iii) 

Information  retention  and  disposal:  A  licensee  should  ensure  that  the 
information it collects and maintains in the course of its business is on a 
need-to-have basis, and that access to information is on a need-to-know 
basis.  In addition, a licensee should implement an information retention 
and disposal  policy to  limit  the amount of information  stored  and the 
retention period of information, taking into account legal, regulatory and 
business  requirements.   Procedures should also  be in  place  for secure 
deletion of information that is no longer needed. 

IT services and operations 

6.5.16. A licensee should put in place appropriate policies and procedures to ensure the 
delivery  of  effective  IT  services  and  operations,  which  should  cover  the 
following areas: 

(i) 

(ii) 

IT operations management and support: A licensee should establish an 
IT  function  for  the  delivery  of  day-to-day  technology  services  and 
support to business units.  The management of the IT function should 
formulate  an  internal  service  level  agreement  with  business  units  to 
specify  system  availability,  performance  requirements,  capacity  for 
growth,  and  the  level  of  support  provided  to  users.    Policies  and 
procedures should also be put in place by the IT function to manage the 
delivery  of  agreed  support  and  services. 
  Detailed  operational 
instructions such as computer operator tasks, as well as job scheduling 
and execution, as well as the procedures for on-site and off-site back-up 
of data and software (e.g. frequency, scope, retention periods of back-
up, and frequency of restoration tests) should be documented clearly. 

Incident and problem management: As part of its incident management 
framework  (see  paragraph  6.8),  a  licensee  should  establish  an  IT 
incident  management  framework  to  handle  IT  incidents  where  the 
resolution  timeframe  is  commensurate  with  the  severity  level  of  the 
incident,  as  well  as  an  IT  problem  management  process  to  identify, 
classify, prioritise and address all IT problems in a timely manner.  The 
IT  problem  management  process  should  set  out  clear  roles  and 
responsibilities of staff involved, and include regular trend analyses of 
past  incidents  to  facilitate  identification  and  prevention  of  similar 
problems. 

(iii) 

Performance monitoring and capacity planning: Processes should be put 
in place to ensure that the availability, capacity and performance of its 
IT  assets  is  continuously  monitored  and  exceptions  are  reported  in  a 

34 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
timely  manner.    A  licensee  should  also  implement  proper  capacity 
planning  taking  into  account  planned  business  activities.    Capacity 
planning should also be extended to cover back-up systems and facilities 
in addition to the production environment. 

(iv) 

IT  facilities  and  equipment  maintenance:  To  ensure  the  reliability, 
robustness,  stability  and  availability  of  its  IT  assets  and  back-ups,  a 
licensee should maintain its IT assets and back-ups in accordance with 
industry  practice  and  suppliers’  recommended  service  intervals  and 
specifications.  IT assets that are critical to the continuity of IT services 
should be identified and single points of failure should be minimised.  
An IT asset inventory should be maintained to keep track of all hardware 
and software purchased and leased. 

Project and change management 

6.5.17. A licensee should establish an effective framework for managing technology-

related projects. 

(i) 

Project  life  cycle:  A  licensee  should  establish  a  framework  for  the 
management of major technology-related projects (such as any in-house 
software  development),  setting  out,  among  other  things  the  project 
management  methodology  applied.    The  licensee  should  adopt  a  full 
project  life  cycle  methodology  governing  the  process  of  planning, 
development,  implementation  and  maintenance  of  projects.    The 
methodology  should  clearly  allocate  responsibilities  and  set  out 
deliverables at each phase, as well as define security requirements at an 
early stage  for each  project.   The  licensee should establish guidelines 
and  standards  for  software  development  and  programme  coding  with 
reference to industry practice.  Where a project involves the acquisition 
of external software packages, the licensee should implement adequate 
measures to address the risks arising from the use of such packages (e.g. 
breach  of  software  licence  agreement  or  patent  infringement,  security 
risks),  as  well  as  to  ensure  that  ongoing  maintenance  and  adequate 
support  for  software  packages  are  available  through  written  contracts 
established with vendors. 

(ii) 

Testing and acceptance: The licensee should establish a formal testing 
and acceptance process to ensure that only properly tested and approved 
systems  are  deployed  to  the  production  environment.    The  process 
should cover areas including but not limited to business logic, security 
controls  and  system  performance  under  various  stress-load  scenarios 
and  recovery  conditions.    In  addition,  the  licensee  should  appoint  an 
independent third party to conduct quality assurance reviews of major 
technology-related projects with the necessary assistance from the legal 

35 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  compliance  functions,  as  well  as  conduct  penetration  testing  to 
identify  any  weaknesses.    As  part  of  a  quality  assurance  review,  the 
licensee  should  implement  source  code  reviews  (e.g.  peer  review  and 
automated analysis review) to identify and address vulnerabilities and 
non-compliance  with  its  internal  policies,  control  requirements, 
regulations and applicable laws. 

(iii) 

Segregation  of  duties  and  systems:  A  licensee  should  ensure  that  the 
development, testing and production environments are segregated, and 
that  there  is  a  proper  segregation  of  duties  so  that  only  authorised 
personnel  can  access  the  development,  testing  and  production  library 
and environments.  The licensee should also ensure that production data 
is  not  used  in  development  or  testing  unless  the  data  has  been 
desensitised and approval has been obtained from the information owner.  
In addition, vendors’ access to the development or testing environments, 
if any, should also be closely monitored. 

(iv)  Change  management:  A  licensee  should  implement  a  proper  and 
effective change management process covering the process of planning, 
scheduling, applying, distributing and tracking changes to its IT assets.  
The process should be able to capture all changes, and should include 
elements  including  but  not  limited  to  obtainment  of  approval; 
classification  and  prioritisation;  determination  of  impact;  roles  and 
responsibilities  of  each  relevant  party;  programme  version  controls; 
scheduling,  tracking,  monitoring  and  implementation;  rolling  back 
changes upon the emergence of issues; post implementation verification; 
and  audit  trails.    Procedures  should  also  be  put  in  place  to  manage 
emergency changes, which should include approval processes, as well 
as  processes  to  seek  endorsement  where  changes  need  to  be 
implemented  as  a  matter  of  urgency  and  approval  seeking  is 
impracticable. 

Network management 

6.5.18. A  licensee  should  implement  network  management  and  security  measures  to 

ensure the robustness of its networks. 

(i) 

Network  management:  A  licensee  should  assign  responsibility  for 
network  management  to  personnel  with  relevant  expertise.    The 
standards, design, diagrams and operating procedures should be clearly 
documented, kept up-to-date, communicated to relevant staff members, 
and reviewed periodically.  Communications facilities that are critical to 
the continuity of network services should be identified, and single points 
of  failure  should  be  minimised  by  the  automatic  re-routing  of 
communications through alternate routes should critical nodes or links 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) 

fail.    Measures  should  be  implemented  to  monitor  the  network  on  a 
continuous basis to reduce the likelihood of network traffic overload and 
detect network intrusions. 

Network security: A licensee should put in place procedures regarding 
the  use  of  networks  and  network  services,  covering  the  available 
networks and network services, authorisation procedures for access to 
networks  and  network  services,  as  well  as  controls  and  procedures  to 
protect  access  to  network  access  points,  network  connections  and 
network  services.    The  licensee  should  establish  a  secure  network 
infrastructure  (covering  the  design  of  Demilitarised  Zone  as  well  as 
configuration of network servers, intrusion detection system, firewalls 
and routers) to protect critical systems.  Reviews should be conducted 
regularly on the security parameter settings of network devices such as 
routers, firewalls and network servers to ensure that they remain current.  
In addition, the licensee should segregate internal networks to different 
segments having regard to the access control needed for the data stored 
in, or systems connected to, each segment.  Encryption technology and 
network  monitoring  tools  covering  internal  and  external  networks 
should  be  put  in  place  to  protect  sensitive  information  in  internal 
networks,  communication  channels  to  third  parties  and  external 
networks.  Measures should be implemented to detect and block actual 
and  attempted  network  intrusion,  and  network  operational  personnel 
should  be  alerted  on  a  real-time  basis  of  potential  security  breaches.  
Audit trails of activities in critical network devices should be maintained 
and reviewed regularly. 

Cybersecurity 

6.5.19. A licensee should implement adequate measures for identifying cyber risks and 
threats  in  respect  of  the  licensee  in  a  timely  manner,  and  deploy  effective 
measures to defend against cyberattacks. 

(i) 

Risk  identification  and  assessment:  A  licensee  should  implement  risk 
assessment  measures  to  identify  and  classify  cybersecurity  risks 
stemming from its operations, including but not limited to its internal 
operations,  external  connection  with  other  parties,  etc.    The  licensee 
should also put in place procedures for identifying assets, activities and 
processes that warrant additional cybersecurity controls.  In addition, the 
licensee  should  conduct  periodic  cyber  risk  assessments  covering 
relevant and important IT assets, with the scope of assessment being able 
to cater for both widely known and emerging risks, as well as update its 
cybersecurity controls from time to time. 

37 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) 

Threat intelligence: A licensee should put in place adequate measures 
for  monitoring  threat  intelligence  to  discover  emerging  threats.    The 
threat intelligence should be analysed such that mitigating measures can 
be implemented in a timely manner.  The licensee should also provide 
cybersecurity awareness training as well as reminders, based on latest 
threat intelligence, to its staff members regularly. 

(iii)  Vulnerability  detection:  A  licensee  should  implement  processes  for 
detecting  vulnerabilities  against  cyberattacks.    Antivirus  and  anti-
malware tools should be used to detect attacks and protect the licensee’s 
IT assets from malware.  Regular cybersecurity assessments, including 
vulnerability  scanning,  penetration 
intelligence-led 
cyberattack simulation testing should be conducted in a manner which 
is commensurate with the licensee’s cybersecurity risk profile to detect 
control  gaps  in  employee  behaviours,  security  defences,  policies  and 
resources.    The  results  of  the  testing  should  be  used  to  assess  the 
adequacy  of  the  licensee’s  cybersecurity  controls,  and  appropriate 
actions should be taken to mitigate the issues, threats and vulnerabilities 
in a timely manner. 

testing  and 

(iv)  Cyber incident response: As part of its incident management framework 
and  business  continuity  plan  (see  paragraph  6.8),  a  licensee  should 
implement measures for detecting cyber incidents, as well as put in place 
incident response procedures to set out the procedures on responding to 
cyber  incidents.    The  incident  response  procedures  should  include 
procedures  for  timely  actions  to  limit  or  contain  the  impact  of  cyber 
incidents, and restore its operations according to the recovery strategies 
and recovery time objectives.  Escalation and communication processes 
should  be  put  in  place  so  that  the  incidents  are  reported  and 
communicated to relevant stakeholders in a timely manner.  Processes 
should also be put in place such that digital forensic evidence of cyber 
incidents  are  recorded,  analysed  and  investigated,  and  that  mitigating 
measures are implemented to prevent similar incidents. 

Disaster recovery 

6.5.20. As part of its incident management framework and business continuity plan (see 
paragraph 6.8), a licensee should develop an IT disaster recovery plan to ensure 
that  critical  IT  assets  and  services  can  be  resumed  in  accordance  with  the 
business recovery requirements. 

Management of technology service providers 

38 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5.21. A licensee should take into account the guidance on third party risk management 

(see paragraph 6.6.2 to 6.6.11) when managing technology service providers. 

6.5.22. In addition to the general third party risk management measures, when engaging 
with technology service providers, a licensee should ensure its service providers 
have  adequate  resources  and  expertise  to  adhere  to  the  licensee’s  technology 
risk  management  policies.    Critical  technology  services  should  only  be 
outsourced  after  a  detailed  assessment  in  line  with  relevant  internationally 
recognised certification standards has been conducted on the prospective service 
provider’s IT controls by an independent  third party  with satisfactory results. 
The  assessment  results  should  be  shared  with  the  HKMA.    Outsourcing 
agreements should clearly define performance standards, hardware and software 
ownership,  and  include  provisions  for  subcontracting  (if  any),  ensuring  the 
original  service  provider  remains  accountable  for  all  services.    The  licensee 
should, to the extent appropriate and practicable, diversify its service providers 
to mitigate risks associated with single-provider dependencies and put in place 
comprehensive  contingency  plans  for  critical  technology  services  which  are 
provided by technology service providers. 

6.6.  Operational risk management 

6.6.1.  A licensee should put in place effective policies and procedures to manage its 
operational  risks.    The  licensee  should  conduct  risk  identification  and 
assessments regularly, to identify the material operational risks associated with 
its business activities, processes and systems, which include but are not limited 
to theft, fraud and misappropriation of reserve assets, business disruption, etc.  
To  this  end,  the  licensee  should  draw  reference  from  operational  incidents 
occurring in relevant sectors.  For each identified risk, the licensee should adopt 
an  appropriate  method  for  assessing  such  risk,  including  estimating  the 
probability that such risk will materialise taking into account the causes of such 
risk  and  assessing  their  potential  impact  to  the  licensee’s  business  activities, 
processes and systems.  

Third party risk management 

6.6.2.  A licensee should put in place policies on managing the risks associated with 
third  party  arrangements.    In  practice,  before  entering  into  a  third  party 
arrangement,  the  licensee  should  identify  and  assess  the  risks  that  may  arise 
from such arrangements and their materiality to the licensee’s business activities, 
processes  and  systems,  and  implement  measures  to  adequately  address  the 
material  risks.    In  particular,  the  licensee  should  assess  the  importance  and 
criticality of the services or operations to be performed by the third party entities, 
identify the reasons and the needs for such arrangement, as well as the impact 
on the licensee’s risk profile. 

39 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6.3.  A  licensee  should  assess  the  risks  of  disruption  in  the  third  party  entities’ 
operations,  and  as  part  of  its  incident  management  framework  and  business 
continuity  plan  (see  paragraph  6.8),  implement  contingency  arrangements 
maintained by both the third party entities and the licensee itself to ensure the 
impact  on  the  licensee’s  operations  is  minimised.    The  licensee  should  also 
identify feasible and viable alternative arrangements so that the impact of any 
prolonged disruption can be minimised.  The licensee remains solely responsible 
for meeting its regulatory obligations under the SO and other relevant regulatory 
requirements prescribed by the HKMA from time to time. 

6.6.4.  A licensee should perform appropriate due diligence on the prospective third 
party entity, including conducting thorough testing, to ensure that the services 
or operations performed by the third party entities will meet the performance 
standards and/or expectations, and are compliant with the applicable regulatory 
requirements.  Aspects to be included as part of the due diligence should include 
the cost factor, quality of services or operations, financial soundness, reputation, 
managerial  skills,  technical  and  operational  capabilities,  availability  of  third 
party  audits,  assessments  or  compliance  certifications,  capacity  to  meet  the 
licensee’s demand on an ongoing basis, familiarity with the industry, capacity 
to keep pace with innovation in the market, etc. 

6.6.5.  For third party  arrangements, a licensee should enter into written contractual 
agreements with the relevant third party entities, which sets out (i) the type and 
level of services or operations as well as performance standards, (ii) operational 
arrangements  including  any  subcontracting  arrangements,  (iii)  contingency 
arrangements,  (iv)  rights  and  obligations  of  the  licensee  and  the  third  party 
entities including termination rights as well as the fees and charges payable by 
the licensee, (v) rights of the licensee to access, retrieve and retain accurate and 
up-to-date records in Hong Kong on a timely basis and ability to make those 
records  available  for  inspection  by  relevant  authorities  and  the  licensee’s 
internal and external auditors (if applicable), (vi) data handling controls such as 
data  storage,  back-up,  protection,  confidentiality  and  removal  arrangements 
upon termination or expiry of the contract (if applicable). 

6.6.6.  On an ongoing basis, the licensee should implement measures for continuous 
monitoring of the operational status of the third party entities and the availability 
of  the  services  or  operations  they  perform,  as  well  as  for  identifying  and 
reporting  any  disruptions.    The  licensee  should  also  regularly  conduct  risk 
assessments  to  ensure  all  material  risks  arising  from  the  third  party 
arrangements are adequately addressed, and regularly perform quality review to 
ensure that the performance of the third party entities is up to standard or meets 
expectations and take appropriate actions to rectify any deficiencies.  In addition, 
the  licensee  should  regularly  review  the  third  party  arrangements  to  assess 
whether they should be renegotiated or renewed, with reference to the current 
market standards and its business requirements.  The contingency arrangements 

40 

 
 
 
 
 
 
put  in  place  by  the  third  party  entities  and  the  licensee  itself  should  also  be 
regularly reviewed and tested. 

6.6.7.  A licensee should ensure that access to data relevant to the licensee by relevant 
authorities (including the HKMA) as well as the licensee’s internal and external 
auditors, is not impeded by the third party arrangements.  The licensee should 
also ensure that measures are in place to facilitate on-site examinations and off-
site reviews of the operations of the third party entities (insofar as the relevant 
operations  are  related  to  the  licensee’s  business)  both  announced  and 
unannounced,  by  authorised  parties  including  the  HKMA  and  the  licensee’s 
internal and external auditors. 

6.6.8.  A  licensee  should  implement  measures  to  ensure  that  the  third  party 
arrangements  comply  with  the  Personal  Data  (Privacy)  Ordinance  (“PDPO”) 
(Cap. 486) and relevant codes of practice, guidelines and best practices issued 
by the Office of the Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data. 

6.6.9.  A licensee should also ensure that only authorised employees of the third party 
entities are able to access data related to the licensee’s operations on a need-to-
know  basis.    The  licensee  should  ensure  that  in  the  event  of  termination  or 
expiry of a third party arrangement, any data received by the relevant third party 
entity which is related to specified stablecoin holders and/or customers of the 
licensee is either returned to the licensee or destroyed by the relevant third party 
entity. 

6.6.10. If a third party arrangement involves the provision of services by entities outside 
Hong Kong, a licensee should assess the additional risks that may arise from 
such arrangement taking into account factors such as the governing law of the 
third party agreement with third party entities.  These include but are not limited 
to ensuring right of access to data relevant to the licensee for examination by 
relevant  authorities  including  the  HKMA,  and  the  licensee’s  internal  and 
external auditors (see paragraph 6.6.7).  The licensee should also assess the level 
of access by authorities in the relevant jurisdiction outside Hong Kong to any 
data which relates to the licensee, and implement measures to ensure that the 
licensee  promptly  notifies  the  HKMA  in  the  event  that  such  authorities  seek 
access to such data. 

6.6.11. A licensee should have in place policies for assessing the materiality of third 
party arrangements and prompt notification to the HKMA of any material third 
party arrangements prior to the commencement of such arrangements, as well 
as  procedures  for  continuously  monitoring  existing  non-material  third  party 
arrangements and notifying the HKMA if such arrangements become material 
over  time.    Material  third  party  arrangements  include  but  are  not  limited  to 
custody  for  reserve  assets,  distribution  of  specified  stablecoins,  critical  IT 
services, etc. 

41 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.7.  Reputation risk management 

6.7.1.  A  licensee  should  implement  effective  processes  for  the  management  of 
reputation risks that is appropriate for the size and complexity of its business.  
The licensee should (i) identify and assess the potential reputation implications 
of  its  activities  (including  its  licensed  stablecoin  activities),  (ii)  implement  a 
monitoring  and  reporting  mechanism  to  keep  track  of  such  risks  as  well  as 
events that may lead to materialisation of such risks, (iii) take proactive actions 
to minimise the identified risks, and (iv) respond swiftly to mitigate any impact 
should such risks materialise.  The licensee should also implement measures for 
notifying the HKMA of any incidents that may have a material adverse effect 
on its reputation. 

6.7.2.  In  particular,  a  licensee  should,  on  a  best  efforts  basis,  implement  adequate 
measures  for  identifying  and  handling  potential  fraud  cases  that  may  be 
associated  with  its  business  (including  specified  stablecoins  it  issues).  
Examples include impersonation of the licensee for conducting activities that 
may  breach  relevant  laws  and  regulations.    Furthermore,  the  licensee  should 
also monitor any activities and incidents that may be viewed as being associated 
with itself and may therefore impact its reputation.  Examples include wrapping 
of the specified stablecoins  issued by the licensee, which may lead specified 
stablecoin holders and/or potential specified stablecoin holders into believing 
that such wrapped tokens are issued by the licensee.  To address the associated 
risks, the licensee should implement appropriate measures on monitoring (e.g. 
monitoring  websites,  social  media  posts,  etc.),  and  put  in  place  measures  for 
handling these cases, which include but are not limited to issuing reminders to 
the  public,  reporting  to  the  relevant  authorities,  engagement  with  media 
agencies, etc. 

6.8. 

Incident management, business continuity and exit 

Overview 

6.8.1.  A  licensee  should  establish  an  effective  governance  arrangement  for  the 
development,  maintenance  and  implementation  of  a  comprehensive  incident 
management  framework  as  well  as  business  continuity  and  exit  plans,  which 
should  include  clear  lines  of  responsibilities,  an  effective  and  efficient 
escalation  procedure,  detailed  procedures  for  the  triggering  and  execution  of 
incident  response  procedures,  business  continuity  recovery  strategies  or 
business  exit  plan,  as  well  as  a  clear  communication  strategy  to  relevant 
stakeholders including specified stablecoin holders. 

Incident management  

42 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.8.2.  A  licensee  should  establish  an  effective  incident  management  framework  to 
ensure a timely response to incidents which have or may have a material adverse 
effect on its business, operations, assets or reputation, and/or result in the breach 
or potential breach of any statutory or regulatory requirements by the licensee 
or its Board, senior management or staff members.  The connection between the 
incident management framework and the licensee’s business continuity plan and 
disaster recovery plan (see paragraph 6.5.20) should be clearly documented. 

6.8.3.  In practice, a licensee should set out the criteria for classifying the materiality 
and  severity  of  incidents,  and  establish  effective  arrangements  for  detecting, 
monitoring and evaluating incidents.  The licensee should also establish a set of 
indicators that may signal the need for the activation of response procedures.  
The indicators should cover areas including but not limited to the following. 

(i) 

(ii) 

Credit, liquidity and market risks (e.g. failure of counterparty; surge in 
redemption  demands;  prolonged  exceeding  (e.g.  more  than  one  (1) 
business day) of internal limits on credit risk exposures to counterparties 
(see  paragraph  6.4.2),  liquidity  risk  indicators  (see  paragraph  6.4.3), 
market risk indicators (see paragraph 6.4.5), etc.) 

Technology risks (e.g. failure in IT assets; IT security breaches; exploits 
of smart contracts; incidents associated with distributed ledgers such as 
hard  and  soft  forks,  serious  network  congestion,  outage,  attacks  and 
irrecoverable failure; loss of access to private keys; unauthorised access 
to private keys; cyber incidents, etc.) 

(iii)  Operational  risks  including  third  party  risks  (e.g.  disruption  of  key 
operations; prolonged absence of key personnel; operational disruption 
or failure of third party entities; negative media coverage on third party 
entities, etc.) 

(iv)  De-pegging risks (e.g. material deviation of secondary prices from par; 
anomalies in order book depth and bid-ask spread in secondary markets; 
in  certain  specified 
concentrated  specified  stablecoins  holdings 
stablecoin holders, etc.) 

(v) 

Reputation  risks  (e.g.  negative  media  coverage;  impersonation  fraud; 
spreading of rumours, etc.) 

(vi)  Compliance  and  legal  risks  (e.g.  breach  of  statutory  and  regulatory 
requirements by the licensee or its staff members; potential litigation, 
etc.) 

6.8.4.  A licensee should put in place response procedures for containing the impact of 
incidents.    Among  other  things,  a  licensee  should  put  in  place  strategies  for 

43 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
coping with liquidity stress or other incidents that could potentially cause the 
licensee  to  fail  to  maintain  a  full  backing  of  reserve  assets  or  meet  all  valid 
redemption requests without undue delay. 

6.8.5.  A  licensee  should  implement  measures  for  ensuring  the  orderly  issuance, 
redemption  and  distribution  of  specified  stablecoins  in  the  event  that  the 
licensee’s normal operations are disrupted.  If the licensee engages third party 
entities for the distribution of specified stablecoins it issues, it should also put 
in place measures for dealing with potential disruption to the services provided 
by such third party entities.  Such measures may include identifying multiple 
alternative third party entities, etc. 

6.8.6.  A licensee should also implement measures for addressing material de-peg of 
specified stablecoin in secondary markets, such as enhancing communications 
with  the  public  and  specified  stablecoin  holders,  increasing  the  frequency  of 
disclosure of reserve  assets,  maintaining additional redemption  channels,  etc.  
Among other things, a licensee should take into account factors including the 
mismatch  between  business  hours  when  redemption  requests  are  being 
processed, as well as the round-the-clock operations of the specified stablecoins. 

6.8.7.  A licensee should implement measures for addressing failures in the underlying 
technological  elements  of  the  specified  stablecoins  it  issues.    Among  other 
things, the licensee should maintain robust back-up records with corresponding 
procedures for facilitating recovery, or in the event of irrecoverable failure of 
the  distributed  ledgers,  for  facilitating  the  redemption  of  such  specified 
stablecoins. 

6.8.8.  As  part  of  the  incident  management  process,  a  licensee  should  collect  and 
preserve forensic evidence as appropriate to facilitate subsequent investigation 
and prosecution of offenders if necessary.  After the incident, the licensee should 
also perform a review to identify the root causes and adopt rectification actions 
as necessary. 

Business continuity management 

6.8.9.  Section 16(1) of Schedule 2 to the SO stipulates that a licensee must have in 
place  and  implement  adequate  and  appropriate  systems  of  control  for 
appropriate  planning  to  support  timely  recovery  and  continuity  of  critical 
functions  in  relation  to  its  licensed  stablecoin  activities  when  there  is  an 
occurrence of significant operational disruption.  A licensee should put in place 
an  effective  business  continuity  management  programme  with  adequate 
resources to ensure the preservation of essential data, as well as the continuation 
and  timely  recovery  of  critical  functions  in  relation  to  its  licensed  stablecoin 
activities  in  the  event  of  disruption,  and  such  programme  should  include  a 
business continuity plan.  Senior management should have sufficient oversight 

44 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of  the  licensee’s  business  continuity  management  programme  and  offer 
necessary support to staff members to ensure the effective implementation of 
the business continuity plan. 

6.8.10. A  licensee  should  establish  formally  documented  business  continuity  plan  to 
provide  comprehensive  guidance  and  procedures  for  managing  business 
disruptions, and enabling the resumption and continuation of critical operations, 
with  the  ultimate  goal  of  returning  to  normal  business  operations.    The  plan 
should  outline  critical  operations  and  key  dependencies,  both  internal  and 
external,  the criteria for  activating the business  continuity plan, and integrate 
elements such as business impact analyses, recovery strategies, escalation and 
communication procedures, and contact details of key personnel.  Copies of the 
business  continuity  plan  should  be  stored  at  locations  separate  from  the 
licensee’s  primary  sites.    Senior  management  and  key  personnel  should  be 
provided with a summary of key steps to take in case of an emergency. 

6.8.11. In  practice,  a  licensee  should  put  in  place  processes  for  conducting  business 
impact  analyses  on  a  regular  basis  to  identify  critical  business  operations, 
services  and  internal  support  functions  which  have  to  be  continuously  and 
effectively  delivered  in  the  event  of  a  disruption.    The  licensee  should  also 
identify potential stress scenarios that may disrupt its services, and put in place 
a monitoring mechanism as well as a set of indicators that may signal the need 
for the activation of recovery strategies. 

6.8.12. Among other things, a licensee should identify the minimum level of critical 
services that needs to be maintained in the event of a disruption, and develop 
realistic, measurable and achievable recovery objectives, including a maximum 
tolerable downtime to recover and resume the minimum level of critical services, 
a recovery time objective to recover critical IT resources and a recovery point 
objective to recover data. 

6.8.13. A licensee should put in place a range of recovery strategies as well as key steps, 
milestones and processes for execution to address the potential disruption to its 
businesses.    When  formulating  the  strategies  and  procedures,  the  licensee 
should assess the impact, timeframe for implementation, probable success of the 
recovery  strategies  as  well  as  the  associated  risks.    The  recovery  priorities 
should be guided by the results of the business impact analyses.  The licensee 
should also take into account situations where more than one kind of disruption 
occurs  simultaneously,  and  ensure  that  the  measures  it  implements  would  be 
able to address multiple disruptions at once. 

6.8.14. To ensure the effectiveness of the business continuity plan, a licensee should 
identify  key  information  that  is  critical  to  its  business  (including  its  licensed 
stablecoin activities) and back up such information as soon as possible and on 
an ongoing basis at an off-site location.  For certain information, the licensee 
should  also  consider  implementing  instantaneous  back-up  (e.g.  real-time 

45 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mirroring  technology)  to  ensure  high  availability  of  records.    The  licensee 
should  implement  measures  for  retrieving  the  back-up  information  when 
necessary.    Such  measures  as  well  as  the  detailed  procedures  should  be 
documented in the business continuity plan. 

6.8.15. A  licensee  should  select  alternate  sites  for  business  and  IT  recovery,  which 
should be sufficiently distanced from the primary site.  The alternate sites should 
be readily accessible and available for occupancy within the timeframe required 
in the licensee’s business continuity plan.  The alternate sites for IT recovery 
should have sufficient IT equipment to meet the recovery strategies as set out in 
the licensee’s business continuity plan. 

6.8.16. A licensee should avoid placing excessive reliance on third party entities for 
business continuity plan support.  If vital recovery services (e.g. provision of 
alternate sites) are provided by third party entities, the licensee should manage 
the  risks  associated  with  such  services  accordingly  (see  paragraphs  6.6.2  to 
6.6.11), and specify the type and capacity of support, as well as the required 
lead-time in the written contractual agreements with the third party entities. 

Business exit plan 

6.8.17. Section 16(2) of Schedule 2 to the SO stipulates that a licensee must have in 
place and implement adequate and appropriate systems of control to ensure that 
(i)  an  orderly  wind-down  of  its  licensed  stablecoin  activities  could  be 
implemented, and (ii) redemption of specified stablecoins issued by the licensee 
could  be  honoured  in  an  orderly  manner.    A  licensee  should  put  in  place  a 
business exit plan for the orderly wind-down of its licensed stablecoin activities 
should  other  options  be  proven  not  possible.    The  business  exit  plan  should 
cover a range of scenarios which may render an orderly wind-down necessary, 
as  well  as  measures  for  monitoring  any  materialisation  or  potential 
materialisation  of  such  scenarios.    The  licensee  should  also  set  out  detailed 
procedures to be taken upon a triggering of the business exit plan, which should 
include but are not limited to processes for (i) liquidating reserve assets under 
normal and stressed conditions (including measures for ensuring maximisation 
of proceeds from the liquidation of reserve assets and minimisation of impact 
on the overall market stability), (ii) facilitating specified stablecoin holders to 
file redemption claims, (iii) distributing proceeds to specified stablecoin holders, 
and (iv) making arrangements for operations involving third party entities.  The 
licensee should assess the time and resources required for the execution of the 
business  exit  plan,  and  implement  measures  to  ensure  sufficient  time  and 
resources are available in case of a need for orderly wind-down.  The licensee 
should  also  assess  the  legal  certainty  and  operational  feasibility  of  the 
procedures. 

Review, testing and reporting 

46 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.8.18. A licensee should review its incident management framework, as well as the 
business continuity and exit plans regularly and at least on an annual basis, and 
whenever there has been an activation of the incident response procedures or 
business  continuity  recovery  strategies.    Any  shortcomings  identified  during 
such  review  should  be  promptly  addressed  and  reflected  in  the  updated 
framework  and  plans.    The  framework  and  plans,  as  well  as  any  material 
changes, should be approved by the Board.  The licensee should also conduct 
regular  audits  to  assess  (i)  whether  the  execution  of  incident  response 
procedures  and/or  business  continuity  recovery  strategies  (if  any)  are  in 
compliance with its framework and plans, as well as the applicable regulatory 
requirements, and (ii) whether the framework and plans are realistic and remain 
current.  The licensee should report the audit outcomes, including any material 
findings, to the HKMA in a timely manner and promptly provide the audit report 
and relevant supporting documents to the HKMA upon request. 

6.8.19. A licensee should ensure the incident management framework, as well as the 
business  continuity  and  exit  plans  are  subject  to  regular  testing  (including 
simulation  exercise),  at  least  on  an  annual  basis,  to  ensure  that  all  relevant 
personnel are familiar with the framework and plans and their responsibilities 
thereunder, and are able to take prompt actions accordingly.  The result of each 
testing should be reported to the Board and senior management, and the licensee 
should  ensure  that  the  framework  and  plans  are  updated  to  address  any 
shortcomings which are identified during the testing. 

6.8.20. A  licensee  should  submit  to  the  HKMA  the  contact  details  of  key  personnel 
involved in the implementation of the incident management framework, as well 
as the business continuity and exit plans, and should promptly notify the HKMA 
of any changes to such key personnel.  The licensee should also put in place 
procedures for notifying the HKMA in a timely manner of the materialisation, 
or  anticipated  materialisation,  of  any  scenarios  under  which  the  licensee’s 
incident  response  procedures,  business  continuity  recovery  strategies  or 
business exit plan are or are likely to be triggered. 

6.8.21. If  a  licensee’s  incident  response  procedures,  business  continuity  recovery 
strategies  or  business  exit  plan  involve  the  delay  of  redemption  of  specified 
stablecoins issued by the licensee (i.e. redemption requests will not be fulfilled 
within  the  one  (1)-business  day  requirement),  the  licensee  should  implement 
measures 
the  Monetary  Authority’s  written  consent  before 
implementing such delay. 

to  seek 

47 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 

Corporate governance 

7.1.  Corporate governance 

7.1.1.  Section 9 of Schedule 2 to the SO stipulates that a licensee must have in place 
and  implement  adequate  and  appropriate  risk  management  policies  and 
procedures for managing the risks arising from the carrying on of its licensed 
stablecoin  activities  that  are  commensurate  with  the  scale  and  complexity  of 
those activities.   To this end,  a licensee should  establish a sound governance 
arrangement  for  the  purpose  of  effective  decision  making  and  proper 
management  of  risks  arising  from  the  carrying  on  of  its  licensed  stablecoin 
activities. 
  Such  arrangement  should  include,  among  others,  a  clear 
organisational structure with well-defined, transparent and clearly documented 
allocation  of  responsibility.    There  should  also  be  clear  documentation  on 
decision  making  procedures, 
reporting  and 
reporting 
communication processes. 

internal 

lines, 

Board of directors 

7.1.2.  A  licensee’s  Board  has  the  ultimate  responsibility  for  the  operations  and 
soundness of the licensee.  The Board should clearly define and document its 
responsibilities, authorities, composition requirements, as well as arrangements 
of  its  own  work  (including  appointment  of  directors,  Board  members’ 
qualification and training, Board performance evaluation, governance in group 
structures  (if  applicable),  communication  with  the  HKMA,  etc.).    The  Board 
should have an adequate number and appropriate composition of members to 
ensure sufficient checks and balances and collective expertise for effective and 
objective decision-making. 

7.1.3.  Generally, at least one-third of the Board members should be independent non-
executive directors (“INEDs”) so as to ensure sufficient checks and balances, 
bring  in  outside  experience  and  provide  objective  judgement.    Prior  to  each 
appointment of a director, including an INED, a licensee should submit to the 
HKMA  its  reasons  and  justifications  for  such  intended  appointment.    The 
requirement in this paragraph does not apply to a licensee that is an authorized 
institution,  which  should  comply  with  requirements  under  the  Banking 
Ordinance (Cap. 155) and relevant guidance. 

7.1.4.  The responsibilities of the Board should include but are not limited to: 

(i) 

Setting and overseeing the objectives of the licensee and strategies for 
achieving such objectives; 

48 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) 

Overseeing the establishment of a corporate structure with well-defined, 
transparent and clearly documented allocation of responsibilities as well 
as internal reporting and communication processes; 

(iii)  Delegating and appointing appropriate members of the Board to chair 
and/or  serve  as  members  on  different  specialised  committees  (e.g. 
remuneration  committee,  audit  committee),  which  are  responsible  for 
formulating policies in their respective areas; 

(iv)  Appointing and overseeing the licensee’s senior management to ensure 
that they exercise their duties in accordance with approved policies and 
delegated authorities; 

(v) 

Establishing  and  overseeing  risk  governance  and  approving  risk 
management policies and key procedures, as well as ensuring effective 
internal control functions; and 

(vi) 

Setting  the  corporate  values  and  standards  of  the  licensee  as  well  as 
overseeing its remuneration policy. 

Senior management 

7.1.5.  The Board should work closely with senior management of the licensee, who 
are accountable to the Board.  Senior management includes (i) a licensee’s chief 
executives  and  where  the  licensee  is  an  authorized  institution,  the  stablecoin 
manager, and (ii) other senior executives, which primarily consist of managers 
(see  paragraphs  7.2.6  to  7.2.7).    The  Board  should  clearly  set  out  the 
responsibilities,  accountability  mechanisms  and  reporting  lines  of  senior 
management, as well as ensure that there are effective arrangements to assess 
their  performance  and  hold  them  accountable.    The  responsibilities  of  senior 
management should include but are not limited to: 

(i) 

(ii) 

Proposing  business  plans  for  deliberation  and  approval  by  the  Board, 
implementing the strategies approved by the Board, and attending Board 
committee meetings where appropriate; 

Establishing  a  corporate  structure  with  well-defined,  transparent  and 
clearly  documented  allocation  of  responsibilities  as  well  as  internal 
reporting and communication processes; 

(iii) 

Ensuring the competency of the licensee’s staff members by establishing 
an effective staff recruitment, appraisal and development programme; 

49 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iv) 

Establishing  an  effective  risk  management  framework,  including 
implementing risk management policies and procedures as approved by 
the Board, as well as ensuring effective internal control functions; and  

(v) 

Establishing an effective management information system that provides 
the Board and senior management with regular and accurate information. 

Compliance and internal audit functions 

7.1.6.  A licensee should establish and maintain a compliance function, which should 
assist  the  licensee  to  ensure  compliance  with  relevant  statutory  provisions, 
regulatory requirements and codes of conduct.  The compliance function should 
have a direct reporting line to senior management, as well as the right to report 
matters  to  the  Board  directly.    The  compliance  function  should  establish 
compliance  policies  and  guidelines 
its  organisation  and 
responsibilities, as well as measures to manage compliance risk, so as to ensure 
that compliance risk is adequately and effectively managed.  The compliance 
policy, as well as any material changes, should be approved by the Board and 
subject to regular review as well as additional review if the circumstances so 
warrant. 

to  set  out 

7.1.7.  A licensee should establish and maintain an internal audit function.  The internal 
audit  function  should  be  responsible  for  conducting  objective  and  impartial 
assessments to evaluate the effectiveness of the licensee’s internal systems of 
control, identify weaknesses and recommend enhancements.   It should report 
directly  to  the  Board  or  a  Board  committee,  and  have  in  place  a  structured 
process for audit planning, performance of audit procedures and reporting.  An 
audit  charter  should  be  put  in  place  to  set  out  the  organisation,  authorities, 
responsibilities, objectives and scope of work of the internal audit function.  The 
audit charter, as well as any material changes, should be approved by the Board 
and subject to regular review as well as additional review if the circumstances 
so warrant. 

7.1.8.  The  compliance  and  internal  audit  functions  should  have  (i)  clearly  defined 
responsibilities  and  accountability,  (ii)  sufficient  authority  and  standing,  (iii) 
professional competence, and (iv) adequate resources to perform their duties.  
They  should  also  be  independent  from  front-line  business  units,  and  have 
unfettered access to information that is necessary for carrying out their duties. 

7.1.9.  The compliance function and internal audit functions should be independent and 
not  be  substituted  by  one  another.    If  a  licensee  relies  on  external  or  group 
service, the licensee should demonstrate to the satisfaction of the HKMA the 
effectiveness of the alternative arrangements. 

Corporate governance measures 

50 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.1.10. As part of a sound governance arrangement, a licensee should establish a code 
of conduct for its directors, senior management and staff members which sets 
out the standards of integrity and probity expected of them, and incorporates the 
requirements  for  the  fitness  and  propriety  of  its  chief  executives,  directors, 
managers,  and  where  the  licensee  is  an  authorized  institution,  the  stablecoin 
manager.  The code of conduct should also provide examples of acceptable and 
unacceptable behaviour, and should explicitly prohibit any behaviour that could 
lead  to  non-compliance  by  the  licensee  with  its  obligations  under  the  SO  or 
result  in  unaddressed  conflicts  of  interest.    In  addition,  the  code  of  conduct 
should cover the requirements under the Prevention of Bribery Ordinance (Cap. 
201).  The licensee should implement adequate measures to ensure that the code 
of  conduct  is  fully  understood  by  all  directors,  senior  management  and  staff 
members and is properly enforced. 

7.1.11. As stipulated in section 13(3) of Schedule 2 to the SO, a licensee must have in 
place and implement adequate and appropriate risk management policies and 
procedures  to  identify,  prevent,  manage  and  disclose  potential  and  actual 
conflicts of interest between itself and specified stablecoin holders.  To this end, 
the licensee should implement adequate measures to prevent or manage such 
conflicts.  Measures that could be implemented include but are not limited to 
adopting  segregation  of  duties,  establishing  information  barriers,  disallowing 
directors or staff members from benefiting from the improper use of confidential 
information or advantages offered to them which may lead to unfair, improper 
or  illegal  behaviour,  preventing  directors  or  staff  members  with  outside 
activities from having inappropriate influence within the licensee in respect of 
matters which have some connection with, or touch upon, their outside activities. 

7.1.12. A licensee should have a remuneration policy that is in line with its business 
strategies and long-term interest.  The Board should oversee the establishment 
and the implementation of the remuneration policy, including being responsible 
for  approving  the  remuneration  packages  of  the  chief  executives  (and  the 
stablecoin manager where the licensee is an authorized institution) and heads of 
internal control functions.  The remuneration and performance measures of the 
staff  members  of  the  internal  control  functions  should  be  determined 
independently  of  those  of  the  front-line  business  units  such  that  the 
independence  of  staff  members  of  the  internal  control  functions  is  not 
compromised. 

7.2. 

Fitness and propriety 

7.2.1.  Sections  7  and  8  of  Schedule  2  to  the  SO  sets  out  the  minimum  criteria  in 
relation to fitness and propriety as well as knowledge and experience.  When 
considering  whether  a  person  is  fit  and  proper  to  hold  relevant  position  and 
whether  a  person  possesses  the  relevant  knowledge  and  experience,  the 

51 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
standards may vary depending on the exact position as well as responsibilities 
held by the person concerned. 

Chief executives, stablecoin manager and directors 

7.2.2.  Section 7(2) of Schedule 2 to the SO stipulates that each person who holds the 
position of, among others, chief executive, director or stablecoin manager of a 
licensee must be a fit and proper person to hold the position.  When considering 
whether a person is fit and proper to hold such positions, factors including but 
not limited to the following should be taken into account: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

The person’s reputation and character: Whether the person has a relevant 
criminal  record  (e.g.  convictions  for  fraud  or  other  dishonesty, 
contravention  of  any  provision  of  legislation  designed  to  protect 
members  of  the  public  against  financial  losses  due  to  dishonesty, 
incompetence or malpractice); whether the person has been involved in 
any  business  practices  that  appear  to  be  deceitful,  oppressive,  or 
otherwise improper, or which otherwise reflect discredit on the person’s 
method of conducting business; 

The  person’s  knowledge  and  experience,  competence,  soundness  of 
judgment  and  diligence:  Whether  the  person  has  had  experience  of 
similar responsibilities, and the person’s record in fulfilling them; where 
appropriate, whether the person has had appropriate qualifications and 
training; whether the person has a sound degree of balance, rationality 
and maturity demonstrated in the person’s conduct and decision-making; 

The person’s records of non-compliance: Whether the person has any 
record of non-compliance with various non-statutory codes, or has been 
reprimanded,  disciplined  or  disqualified  by  regulators  or  professional 
bodies in Hong Kong or elsewhere; 

The  person’s  record  as  a  controller,  director,  chief  executive  and 
stablecoin manager: Whether the person has been a controller, director, 
chief  executive,  stablecoin  manager,  or  is  otherwise  concerned  in  the 
management,  of  any  body  corporate,  partnership,  unincorporated 
institution  that  has  been  censured,  disciplined,  publicly  criticised, 
investigated  or  whose  licence,  registration  or  authorisation  has  been 
revoked by any regulator in Hong Kong or elsewhere, or has been wound 
up  or  adjudicated  insolvent  by  a  court  in  Hong  Kong  or  elsewhere; 
whether the person has been disqualified by a court  in Hong Kong or 
elsewhere from being a director of a company.  In these cases, factors 
such as the seriousness of circumstances leading to the winding up or 
investigation, the extent of the person’s involvement, the lapse of time 
and the person’s conduct since should be taken into account; 

52 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(v) 

The  person’s  business  record  and  other  business  interests,  and  the 
person’s financial soundness and strength: Whether the person has any 
that  would 
business  interests  and/or  adverse  financial  position 
undermine  the  prudence  and  soundness  of  the  issue  of  specified 
stablecoins by the licensee, and/or the confidence of specified stablecoin 
holders; 

(vi) 

The person’s interests in the company: Whether the person, in the case 
of  an  INED,  has  direct  or  indirect  financial  or  other  interests  in  the 
business of the licensee as well as the person’s relationship, if any, with 
significant shareholders of the licensee; and 

(vii)  The person’s time and commitment to the company: Whether the person, 
in the case of having outside mandates, is able to devote sufficient time 
and  attention  to  perform  the  person’s  role;  whether  there  are  any 
potential conflicts of interest arising from such outside work. 

7.2.3.  In addition, pursuant to sections 53(2) and 58(1) of the SO, a licensee that is not 
an authorized institution must not appoint a person as the chief executive, and a 
person  must  not  become  a  director  of  such  a  licensee,  without  the  Monetary 
Authority’s consent.  Pursuant to section 66(2) of the SO, a licensee that is an 
authorized  institution  must  not  appoint  a  person  as  the  stablecoin  manager 
without the Monetary Authority’s consent. 

Controllers 

7.2.4.  Section 7(2) of Schedule 2 to the SO stipulates that each person who holds the 
position  of,  among  others,  controller  of  a  licensee  must  be  a  fit  and  proper 
person to hold the position.  When considering whether a person is fit and proper 
to  hold  such  position,  in  addition  to  those  set  out  in  paragraph  7.2.2,  factors 
including whether there could be conflicts of interest arising from the influence 
of  a  person  holding  the  position  of  controller  on  the  licensee,  as  well  as  the 
willingness  and  ability  of  the  person  to  work  collaboratively  with  other 
controllers and the senior management should also be considered.  These factors 
for consideration should be taken into account in a manner proportionate to (i) 
the influence the person has, or is likely to have, on the conduct of the affairs of 
the licensee,  and (ii) the potential impact  of a person holding the position as 
controller on the interests of specified stablecoin holders and potential specified 
stablecoin holders. 

7.2.5.  In  addition,  a  person  must  not  become  a  controller  of  a  licensee  unless  the 
person becomes such a controller in the circumstances set out in section 37(1) 
of the SO.  Section 7(1) of Schedule 2 to the SO also stipulates that the licensee 
must have in place and implement adequate and appropriate systems of control 

53 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to ensure that the Monetary Authority is kept informed of the identity of each 
controller of a licensee.  To this end, the licensee should put in place measures 
for keeping track of the identity of its controllers, as well as for seeking consent 
from the Monetary Authority in accordance with section 38 of the SO. 

Managers 

7.2.6.  Section 7(3) of Schedule 2 to the SO stipulates that a licensee must have in place 
and  implement  adequate  appropriate  systems  of  control  to  ensure  that  each 
person  who  holds  the  position  of  manager  of  the  licensee  is  a  fit  and  proper 
person to hold the position.  To this end, the licensee should: 

(i) 

(ii) 

Clearly  define  the  responsibilities  of,  and  the  skills,  knowledge  and 
experience required for, individual managerial positions, supported by 
up-to-date job descriptions, organisation charts and levels of authority; 

Have in  place a set  of proper procedures  for selecting and appointing 
managers and for satisfying itself regarding the fitness and propriety of 
candidates  for  managerial  positions  at  the  time  of  appointment  or 
recruitment.    In  assessing  the  fitness  and  propriety  of  a  manager  or  a 
prospective manager, factors set out in paragraph 7.2.2 should be taken 
into account, with due regard to the position that the person holds or is 
to hold; 

(iii)  Have in place effective and clearly defined systems for appraising the 
performance of managers, where such systems  should  not  give undue 
weight  to  financial  performance  (e.g.  achievement  of  profitability  or 
market  share)  but  should  also  have  regard  to  other  factors  such  as 
compliance with policies and procedures and regulatory requirements; 

(iv)  Have in place clearly defined policies and procedures for investigating 
breaches  of  policies  and  procedures  or  regulatory  requirements  by 
managers, or complaints about the conduct of managers, and for taking 
disciplinary actions where appropriate; 

(v) 

(vi) 

Have in place clearly defined systems for taking action in respect of, and 
if  necessary  replacing,  managers  whose  performance  is  assessed  as 
unsatisfactory; 

Ensure that managerial vacancies are filled promptly and that there are 
clearly defined arrangements to provide cover in the case of temporary 
vacancies; 

(vii)  Provide adequate training to managers; and 

54 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(viii)  Ensure  that  the  systems  of  control  in  relation  to  the  appointment  of 

managers are subject to periodic review by its internal audit function. 

7.2.7.  In  addition,  pursuant  to  section  63  of  the  SO,  a  licensee  must  notify  the 
Monetary  Authority  within  14  days  after  the  date  on  which  a  person  (i)  is 
appointed  as  a  manager  of  the  licensee,  (ii)  ceases  to  be  a  manager  of  the 
licensee, or (iii) is appointed as a manager for any specified affairs in addition 
to, or in place of, any existing specified affairs.  Such notification must include 
the date on which the event occurred, and particulars of the concerned specified 
affairs. 

55 

 
 
 
 
 
8. 

Business practices and conduct 

8.1. 

Information and accounting systems 

8.1.1.  A licensee should establish effective information and accounting systems to (i) 
record all business activities in a timely and accurate manner, including both 
on-chain  and  off-chain 
information,  (ii)  provide  quality  management 
information  to  enable  effective  and  efficient  management  of  business  and 
to  demonstrate 
operations,  and  (iii)  maintain  appropriate  audit 
effectiveness of controls.  A licensee should also properly maintain books and 
accounts  and  prepare  financial  statements  and  returns  in  compliance  with  all 
applicable  regulatory  reporting  requirements  and  accounting  standards.  
Sufficient  back-up  facilities  and  disaster  recovery  arrangements  for  the 
information and accounting systems should also be put in place. 

trails 

8.1.2.  A licensee should put in place adequate record keeping policies and systems for 
maintaining accurate and sufficient records of its books, accounts, management 
decisions  and  business  activities,  including  both  on-chain  and  off-chain 
information.  The records should be maintained for a sufficiently long period, 
taking into account relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. 

8.1.3.  If the information and accounting systems of a licensee are located outside Hong 
Kong, the licensee should establish effective arrangements to ensure access to 
the  systems,  as  well  as  to  enable  on-site  examinations  or  off-site  reviews, 
whether announced or not, by authorised parties including the HKMA. 

8.2.  Disclosure and reporting 

8.2.1.  When fulfilling its disclosure and reporting obligations, a licensee should ensure 
its information is accurate to the best of its knowledge, and is up-to-date and 
reflecting the actual operations of its businesses. 

8.2.2.  Among other things, as stipulated in sections 5(7) and 6(5) of Schedule 2 to the 
SO,  a  licensee  should  make  adequate  and  timely  disclosure  to  the  public  on 
matters in relation to reserve assets management and redemption.  To this end, 
a licensee should fulfil its ongoing disclosure and reporting obligations as set 
out in paragraphs 2.7 and 3.6. 

8.2.3.  As regards the requirement in section 13(1) of Schedule 2 to the SO to publish 
a white paper in respect of each type of specified stablecoins issued by a licensee, 
the licensee should publicly disclose its white paper at a reasonably prominent 
location  on  its  website.    The  licensee  should  notify  the  HKMA  before  it 
publishes or makes material changes to the white paper.  The whitepaper should 

56 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be,  where  feasible,  be  composed  in  non-technical  language  that  is  easily 
comprehensible to the public. 

8.2.4.  For each type of specified stablecoins it issues, a licensee should set out in a 

white paper information including but not limited to: 

(i) 

General information about the licensee; 

(ii) 

Detailed information about the specified stablecoins; 

(iii)  Reserve  assets  management  arrangement,  as  well  as  relevant 

arrangements with third party entities (if any); 

(iv) 

Issuance,  redemption  and  distribution  mechanisms,  covering  the 
procedures, redemption rights, timeframe, any applicable conditions and 
fees  involved,  as  well  as  arrangements  with  third  party  entities  for 
distribution of the specified stablecoins (if any); 

(v) 

Underlying technology of the specified stablecoins; and 

(vi)  Risks associated with using the specified stablecoins. 

8.2.5.  A licensee should submit to the HKMA on an annual basis its audited financial 
statements  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  applicable  accounting  standards, 
which should cover the reserve assets backing the specified stablecoins it issues.  
The audited financial statements should be submitted to the HKMA within four 
months of the financial year-end. 

8.3. 

Personal data protection 

8.3.1.  A licensee should implement effective measures to ensure that it complies with 
the PDPO and relevant codes of practice, guidelines and best practices issued 
by the Office of the Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data. 

8.4.  Complaints handling 

8.4.1.  Section  14  of  Schedule  2  to  the  SO  sets  out  the  minimum  criteria  regarding 
complaints handling and redress mechanisms.  A licensee should ensure that the 
specified  stablecoin  holders  have  access  to  complaints  handling  and  redress 
mechanisms  that  are  adequate,  accessible,  affordable,  independent,  fair, 
accountable, timely and efficient. 

57 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.4.2.  A licensee should establish proper governance arrangements and segregation of 
duties, such that complaints will be handled by competent staff members who 
are not involved in the subject matter.  The licensee should also have appropriate 
and effective policies and procedures in place for handling complaints, covering 
acknowledgement, investigation, escalation, remediation, resolution, responses 
and closing, as well as for following up issues of concern as identified during 
the complaints handling process.  The licensee should also maintain sufficient 
records for an appropriate time period (i.e. at least two (2) years from the date 
of receipt of complaints, while being compliant with requirements on personal 
data protection), ensure  confidentiality of information, as well as remedy the 
issues  revealed  by  the  complaints.    In  addition,  the  licensee  should  provide 
appropriate feedback and notification to the HKMA, upon the HKMA’s request 
or in case of complaints that reveal compliance issues or repeated complaints 
on  the  same  unaddressed  matter.    The  licensee  should  make  the  complaints 
handling  system  accessible  to  the  public.    The  licensee  should  disclose  its 
complaints  handling  processes  and  expected  timeframe  at  a  reasonably 
prominent location on its website. 

8.4.3.  On  the  timeframe  for  handling  complaints,  a  licensee  should  acknowledge  a 
complaint within seven (7) calendar days of its receipt, providing the contact 
details of responsible staff member, as well as details of the complaints handling 
procedures.  Within 30 calendar days after receiving a complaint, the licensee 
should  provide  the  complainant  with  a  full  response,  or  an  interim  response 
explaining why the licensee is not in a position to make a response, as well as 
providing reasons for the delay and an indicative timeframe for a full response 
(generally not exceeding 60 calendar days).  If the licensee is able to resolve a 
complaint or provide a response within seven (7) calendar days of receiving a 
complaint,  it  may  combine  the  acknowledgement  of  the  complaint  with  the 
response. 

8.4.4.  Where  a  licensee  has  entered  into  arrangements  with  third  party  entities  for 
distribution of specified stablecoins it issues, it should put in place procedures 
to facilitate the handling by such third party entities of related complaints. 

58 

 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  Glossary 

Terms  that  are  defined  in  the  SO  have  their  defined  meaning  when  used  in  this 
Guideline.  Other terms should be interpreted with reference to the definitions set out 
below where applicable. 

Air-gapped 
environment 

Bank 

Business day 

Distribution 

A  computing  environment  in  which  all  IT  assets  and 
networks  are  physically  and  logically  isolated  from 
external IT assets and networks (including the Internet) 

Bank as defined in section 2(1) of part 1 of the Banking 
(Capital) Rules (Cap. 155L) 

A  day  other  than  (i)  a  Saturday,  (ii)  a  day  which  is  a 
general  holiday  as  specified  in  the  General  Holidays 
Ordinance  (Cap.  149),  or  (iii)  a  gale  warning  day  or  a 
black rainstorm warning day as defined in section 71(2) of 
the Interpretation and General Clauses Ordinance (Cap. 1) 

The arrangement where  a  licensee  engages  a  third party 
entity where the latter (i) provides channels for acquisition 
or disposal of specified stablecoins issued by the licensee 
(e.g.  offering  of  specified  stablecoins  by  broker-dealers, 
listing of specified stablecoins on exchange platforms), or 
(ii) provides liquidity on secondary markets as a business 
for specified stablecoins issued by the licensee 

End-user computing 

The  transfer  of  information  processing  and  system 
development  capabilities  from  centralised  data  centres 
onto the user’s desktop 

Government 

Sovereign as defined in section 2(1) of Part 1 of Banking 
(Liquidity) Rules (Cap. 155Q) 

Independent non-
executive director 

Information owner 

A director who does not perform any executive functions 
within  a  licensee’s  organisation  and  is  not  under  any 
undue influence, internal or external,  political  or arising 
through  the  incidents  of  ownership  or  otherwise,  that 
would impede his exercise of independent and objective 
judgement 

An  individual  who  has  been  assigned  as  the  business 
owner of an application system and is accountable for the 
protection of information processed by, and stored in, this 
application system 

59 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issuance 

IT assets 

Key ceremony 

Licensed bank 

In relation to a specified stablecoin issued by a licensee, 
the  process  in  which  a  licensee  issues  the  specified 
stablecoin to a customer following a valid request 

Hardware,  software,  data,  and  systems  maintained  by  a 
licensee (or via third party arrangements) for facilitating 
its IT operations 

A  procedure  for  generating  a  unique  pair  of  public  and 
private keys 

Bank as defined in section 2(1) of the Banking Ordinance 
(Cap. 155) 

Linked counterparties 

In  relation  to  a  counterparty  of  a  licensee  (“reference 
counterparty”),  another  counterparty  of  the  licensee  that 
falls under the following categories: 

(i) 

(ii) 

Entities that control the reference counterparty or 
are controlled by the reference counterparty; 

Entities  that  are  controlled  by  an  entity  that 
controls the reference counterparty; 

(iii)  Entities  that  are  economically  dependent  on  the 
reference  counterparty  or  an  entity  specified  in 
item (i) or (ii); 

(iv) 

Entities 
that  control  and  are  economically 
dependent on an entity specified in item (iii) or are 
controlled by an entity specified in item (iii) 

Mint 

The  creation  of  specified  stablecoins  on  distributed 
ledgers 

Multilateral 
development bank 

Multilateral development bank as defined in section 2(1) 
of the Banking Ordinance (Cap. 155) 

Outsource 

A  category  of  third  party  arrangement  where  a  licensee 
uses  a  service  provider  to  perform  services  that  would 
otherwise be undertaken by the licensee itself 

Public sector entity 

Public  sector  entity  as  defined  in  section  2(1)  of  the 
Banking (Capital) Rules (Cap. 155L) 

Public sector entity 
bank 

PSE bank as defined in section 1(1) of Part 1 of Schedule 
2 to the Banking (Liquidity) Rules (Cap. 155Q) 

Qualified 
organisations 

international 

Relevant international organizations as defined in section 
2(1) of the Banking (Capital Rules) (Cap. 155L) 

60 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Redemption 

In relation to a specified stablecoin issued by a licensee, 
the process in which a specified stablecoin holder receives 
from a licensee the par value of the specified stablecoin in 
to  which  such  specified 
the  referenced  currencies 
stablecoin is referenced 

Specialised committee 

Committee established by the licensee to oversee specific 
areas of risk or governance, including but not limited to 
Board committees and management committees 

Specified stablecoin 
holder 

In relation to a specified stablecoin issued by a licensee, a 
person who holds the specified stablecoins 

Third party 
arrangement 

An arrangement that constitutes one of the following: 

(i) 

(ii) 

A provision  of service  to  a licensee  by  a service 
provider  (whether  or  not  it  is  an  intra-group 
entity); or 

An  engagement  of  a  third  party  for  carrying  out 
certain  activities  in  relation  to  the  licensed 
stablecoin activities of a licensee 

Third party entity 

An entity or a service provider that is involved in a third 
party arrangement 

61 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
